This is Jockel Podcast number 62 with echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink. Good evening,
echo. Good evening. The smallest detail taken from an actual incident in war is more
instructive for me a soldier than all the fears and jomones in the world. They speak no doubt
for the heads of states and armies, but they never show me what I wish to know, a battalion,
a company, a squad in action. Concerning a regiment, a battalion, a company of squad,
it is interesting to know the disposition taken to meet the enemy or order for the march
toward them. What becomes of this disposition or this march order under the isolated or combined
influences of accents of the terrain and the approach of the danger? Is this order changed or
is it continued in force when approaching the enemy? What becomes of it arriving within the range
of the guns, within the range of the bullets? At what distance is a voluntary or an order
disposition taken before starting operations for commencing fire for charging or for both?
How did the fight start? How about the firing? How did the man adapt themselves?
How was the charge made? At what distance did the enemy flee before it? At what distance did the
charge fall back before the fire or the good order and good dissident dispositions of the enemy?
Or before such and such a movement of the enemy? What did it cost? What can be said about all
these with reference to the enemy? What about the behavior? I.e. the order, the disordered,
the shouts, the silence, the confusion, the calmness of the officers and men, whether with us
or with the enemy before during and after combat? How has the soldier been controlled and directed
during the action? At what instant has he had a tendency to quit the line in order to remain behind
or rush ahead? At what moment? If the control were escaping the leader's hands?
Has it no longer been possible to exercise it? At what instant has this control escape from the
battalion commander? When from the captain? The section leader or the squad leader? What time?
In short, if such a thing did take place, was there but a disordered impulse?
Whether to the front or to the rear, carrying a long, pale male with it, both leaders and men?
Where and when did the halt take place? Where and when were the leaders able to resume control of the
men? At what moments before during or after the day was the battalion roll call? The company roll call made?
The results of these roll calls? What were they? How many dead? How many mooned, wounded on the side?
And on the other side? The kind of wounds of the officers, non-commissioned officers,
corpus, privates, etc. All these details in a word and lighten either the material or the
moral side of the action or enable it to be visualized? Possibly a closer examination might show
that they are matters infinitely more instructive to us as soldiers than all the discussions imaginable
on the plans and general conduct of campaigns of the greatest captain in the great movements of the
battlefield. From kernel to private we are soldiers, not generals, and it is therefore our trade
that we desire to know. Certainly one cannot obtain all the details of the same incident,
but from a series of true accounts, there should emanate an ensemble of characteristic
details which in themselves are very apt to show in a striking irrefutable way what was
necessarily and forcibly taking place at such in such a moment of an action in war.
Take the estimate of a soldier obtained in this manner to serve as a base for what might possibly
be a rational method of fighting. It will put us on guard against a priori or pedantic school
methods. Whoever has seen turns to a method based on his knowledge, his personal experience as a soldier,
but experience is long and life is short. The experiences of each cannot therefore be
completed except by those of others. Proofs have weight. And that right there is an excerpt from a letter
by a French officer in the French army named Arden Dubique. He was in the French army in the
mid-1800s which had him then fighting in the Crimean War. 1855, he was in Syria. During the
sectarian violence of 1860 and 1861, he saw service now, Gerea from 1864 to 1866. And finally,
he was a regimental commander during the outbreak of the Franco Prussian War where he served as the
commander for 33 days of his regiment from 15 July 1870 until 18 August 1870 when he was
severely wounded by Shrapnel and eventually died of those wounds.
So, there's something that I really like about this guy, Arden Dubique. And that is that he likes
what I like. He is interested in what I am interested in and that is primarily human nature.
People and human beings and how they act under stress and under fear and in the face of death
and then more important, how do you lead in those situations? Then he recognized
that war while just like today, it certainly involves tactics and strategy and technology
and politics, but war at its core is about people. Men, human beings. And therefore, the general
and the captain and the sergeant and the lieutenant in order for them to master war,
they first have to master their understanding of human nature.
And that is what he looked at and that is what we will look at tonight and obviously
when you look at human nature in the context of war, it does not change when you put it in the
context of life, the rest of life. Now, as we know combat is like life put amplified and intensified.
So, when you see the emotions and the human nature in war, it's much clearer, it's much easier to see
than it is off the battlefield in regular life in the business world. But when you know the undercurrents,
it makes you that much better of a leader. And dupeak, like many other great military leaders,
especially ones that I've seen to like, use a little bit of a rebel, spoke his mind,
kind of like, kind of like hackworth, kind of like patent. He called it out when he saw things going
wrong. He called it out when he saw slack, slack that would lead to poorly trained and therefore,
poorly prepared troops. So luckily he wrote a lot of his work down. This is a work called
Battle Studies and unfortunately he didn't finish it because he was killed. But he got a lot
done and it is a lot of lessons to be learned in here. So with that, let's go ahead and go back to the book.
Now, this is his critique. Remember I said he was a little bit of a rebel. So this is a talking
about Frederick the Great on Manuvers. And here's what he said. The Great Mistake and Inspections
is that you officers amuse yourself with God knows what buffoonries and never dream in the least
of serious servers. This is a source of stupidity which would become most dangerous in case of
serious conflict. Take shoemakers and tailors and make generals of them and they will not
commit worse follies. These blunders are made on a small as well as a large scale.
Consequently in the Greatest Number of Regiments the Private is not well-trained. In
Serambus Regiment he is the worst. In Fatans he amounts to nothing and no more in callers,
ear latch or haggers. Why? Because the officers are lazy and try to get out of a difficulty
by giving themselves the least possible trouble. Call them out the slack and that was a bunch
of obviously a bunch of regimental commanders that he's saying these guys are not good at what they're
doing and they're not jitting after with their guys and getting them trained up and ready to rock
and roll. So this is where he kind of lays out what I was talking about and his view of war
being primarily about man. Back to the book. Battle is the objective, battle is the final objective
of armies and man is the fundamental instrument in battle. Nothing can wisely be prescribed in any
army. It's personnel, organization, discipline and tactics, things which are connected like the
fingers of a hand without exact knowledge of the fundamental instrument, man, and his state of mind,
his morale at the instant of combat. It often happens that those who discuss war taking the weapon
for the starting point. Assume unhesitatingly that the man called the servant will always use it
as contemplated and ordered by the regulations. But such a being throwing off his variable
nature to become an impassive pawn and abstract unit in the combinations of battle is a creature
born of the musings of the library. So legit. So you say, like, oh, you think these guys are going
to go out and just do what you tell them to do? That's that's a fantasy that you can only find
in the library. You won't find it back to the book and not a real man. Man is flesh and blood.
He is body and soul. And strong as the soul often is, it cannot dominate the body to the point where
there will be a will that where there will not be a revolt of the flesh and mental
petribution in the face of destruction. The human heart to quote Marshall Disax is then the
starting point in all matters pertaining to war. Boom. Think about that. And it's the same thing
with leadership overall. People. So what you're doing? You create cool technology. You make a great
product. You want to build a business. You've got to understand people. You got to understand human
nature. Back to the book. The best masters are those who know man best. The man of today
and the man of history. Oh, you've got to understand history. This knowledge naturally comes from a
study of formations and achievements in ancient war. Boom. Look at what's going on in the past.
That's one of the reasons that I read books in the first place. Because I want to understand what
happened in the past. Understand though how those human beings reacted to these situations. I want to know
that. I want to know that. Back to the book. We shall learn to distrust mathematics and material
dynamics as applied to battle principles. We shall learn to be aware of the illustrations drawn
from the range and the maneuver field. So the range where you go shoot a gun and no one shoot
back to you. Right. Oh, we're going to shoot the gun and no one's going to shoot it back.
Oh, hey, if this guy can shoot 10 rounds a minute and hit his target on the range, that means
I can take him out on the battlefield and he'll be able to shoot 10 rounds a minute and hit his target
wrong answer. You don't know that. That's actually wrong. He's going to shoot 100 rounds a minute.
He's going to miss his target all of them because he's going to be freaking out.
Back to the book. There. Oh, and the maneuver field is where you go on. You march around.
And this is training field too. Right. You go out. You march around a training field or you go around
even when you try, you know, I see some military units, they simulate combat and it's so cheesy.
It's got to be hard. You got to have chaos in there. Back to the book.
There. Experiences with the calm settled, unfitied, attentive, obedient soldier with an intelligent
and tractable man instrument, insured. So that's what that's what you have in the training
situation. All those things calm settled, unfitied, the 10 of all those things. This is what
you really get back to the book and not with the nervous, easily swayed, moved, troubled,
distraint, excited, restless, being not even under self control who is the fighting man
from general to private. There are strong men exceptions, but they are rare.
And he mentions that throughout here. Of course, you're going to get guys that are super calm and
super courageous. He mentions that throughout this. But from general to private,
get the guy that's not going to be the same on the battlefield as he is in training.
Let us then study man in battle for it is he who really fights.
Man does not enter battle to fight, but for victory. He does everything that he can to avoid the
first and obtain the second. Boom. Now we start kidding a little psychology here. A man
surprised, leads an instant to collect his thoughts and defend himself. During this instant, he is killed
if he does not run away. Fighter flight. The surprise to adversary does not defend himself. He tries to
flee. So there you go. That's why you're one of the tenants of seal combat is surprise.
Surprise and violence of action. We are going to surprise you because everybody when you get
surprised, it's you're defending yourself. And in many cases, running away, that's your best action.
Back to the book, man taxes is ingenuity to be able to kill without running the risk of being killed.
This is so fundamental. Think about that. Man taxes is ingenuity to be able to kill without
running the risk of being killed. That's what all modern weapons are for. Can I shoot this guy
from 500 yards away? Think that's what I want. You know, we make guns now that shoot around corners.
We drop bombs from the sky. We want to kill without the risk of being killed. Back to the book,
his bravery is born of his strength and is not absolute. Before a stronger, he flees without shame.
So, and he puts out this is what's cool about. Dupique is he's done this massive amount of historical
studies and he cites all these situations. And he's like, you know, when you're in a bad situation
and you're confusing a stronger enemy, you can just count on the guys are going to run away.
Guys are not going to send up here. How many times have you seen that in a street fight?
Right. As soon as the big friend steps in and says, wait a second, you've got to be here with my buddy.
Oh, no, no, no, no, I got no problem here. Echo Charles, I'm good. I didn't realize there was a big
yoke to lie in over here getting ready kicked my butt. So, he's saying that bravery is born of strength.
And everyone's strong. Everyone's brave when you got 12 people with you and you're going to fight
one guy. Everyone's brave. When you reverse those roles, doesn't always turn out that way.
Back to the book, collective man, a disciplined body of troops formed in tactical battle order
is invincible against an undisciplined body of troops. Boom. But against a similar,
similar to a disciplined body, he becomes again primitive man. He flees before a greater force
of destruction when he recognizes it or when he foresees it. Nothing is changed in the heart of man,
disciplined keeps enemies face to face a little longer. But it cannot supplant the instinct of
self preservation and the sense of fear that goes with it. Fear. There are officers and soldiers who
do not know it, but they are people of rare grit. The mass shutters, because you cannot suppress
the flesh. This trembling must be taken into account in all organizations, discipline,
arrangements, movements, maneuvers, mode of action. All of these are affected by the human weakness
of the soldier which causes him to magnify the strength of the enemy. This faltering is studied
in ancient combat. It is seen that of nations, act in war. The strongest have been those who not only
best have understood the general conduct of war, but who have taken human weakness into greatest
account and then taken the best guarantees against it. Powerful. Now what's really interesting
is when you start when you think about some of these true combat stories, this guy is around in
the 1860s. The stories that we've talked about on this podcast, what makes them so phenomenal
is that you can see US Army soldiers, US Marines just completely defying what he's saying here.
That's a bigger stronger force. We're surrounded by Chinese Army at the chosen reservoir.
Cool. We're going to fight them. Are we going to run away? No. We're going to go.
And we're going to stand. So that makes these modern warfare situations even more impressive
because you realize that the general, as he says, the mass shutters, the mass shutters, so most people
they shudder with fear and it breaks them down. And even for me and I've talked about this,
you know, like people always want to ask about sea old training. And it's okay, you're
cold in your wet and you've got to do a bunch of push ups. You can't sleep that much. Oh, and you can't sleep
a bunch. But they're also feeding you a bunch and it's fun, right? Sure. But you compare that to
you know, that stuff doesn't even, it's not, it's nothing. And my favorite example to compare that to
is you know a guy when we were in Ramadi, you got the guy that's the lead turret gunner going out
and up a troll in a Humvee. So he's up above the Humvee exposed the enemy and that guy
went on the way out the gate in Ramadi. You drive by this vehicle graveyard where there was
100 vehicles that were blown up and destroyed by ID's. And ID's going to hit the first vehicle. I mean,
most of them go off and, right? So there's that guy. He's going to be up there and we're, and I'm watching
this guy go out on Operation after Operation. I marked Lee as primary turret gunner on many
operations. That's why I remember it really clearly. But same thing, like there's no way that those
guys and that's one. Of course you got every guy in the vehicle to get out the army guys that are
out for the Marines. These are guys that I've seen. All of them. Looking at this situation,
knowing that death is a high possibility. I won't call the probability. That's a high possibility.
But you know what? Roger that. Yeah. It's rocking wrong. You know when you say,
bud's training is easy. Do you think? I mean, obviously that's some effect. But you know how you go through
bud's training and that's kind of the thing. Like, they got through bud's training that, you know,
I'm tough kind of thing. And then after you go to combat, do you look back on bud's training
and that's what's making it seem like it's easy? I just thought it was fun for me. Yeah. I
into the funny thing is it's not like bud's, I mean, I was not a great athlete. So it was hard
for me to pass the time to have illusions. And I failed some time to have illusions. And they have
a special way of making people fail things. I mean, yeah, yeah. At the time we do four
mile time runs that were five mile time runs. But we didn't know that. We just had to run as hard as we
could. And you know, we had swims that there's a like, you know, a strong ocean current going the
opposite direction. You know, everyone in the class would fail. Like, I failed to swim like that.
Everyone in the class failed except for two swim pairs. The two guys that swam and college,
whatever, those four guys passed everyone else failed. Right. So yeah, I failed that. So I'm not
saying buds was easy. Although there are guys that are great athletes and they have an easy time with
the physical part too. And then there's guys that have an easy time with the mental part,
which is probably where I fell into because I was having a good time. Yeah. And yeah, you know,
but I think, yes, I think once I think once you get to combat, because there's, you know,
there's times where guys that obviously are seals made it through buds, they don't want to be
in combat. No, there's that happens. Yeah, because in combat, just to begin with, never mind,
firefight's never just just starting off your mindset is I could die today. Yeah, I was just
starting off regardless of what happens or doesn't happen. I could die today in buds. You would
think even though buds guys died, but yeah, but very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very,
what I mean, so it's like chances are I'm not going to die today. Yeah. You know, very slim, very few
people usually when people die in buds, they have some kind of a pre-existing condition,
with they have some kind of a heart trouble that didn't get picked up and they have some kind of
brain trouble and all of a sudden the pressure of water or whatever they, they unfortunately get
killed in these horrible situations. But it's a very rare. Right. Very, very, very, very, very,
especially you compare it to a combat situation. Yeah. Right when you get off the what the plane,
yeah, you're like, okay, you know, that and that's just starting out. Just that's like a 100%
chance that that's on your mind. Yeah. That whole time. Yeah. I mean, it's a factor, you know what I mean?
It is definitely a factor. So yeah, what I'm adding thinking back. Oh, yeah, but not that hard.
Yeah, I remember thinking about this, the guys that came in relieved us in Ramadi,
select the next task you that came over who were a bunch of great guys and it been a long time since
seals had been in sustained urban combat like that and suffered pretty significant casualties.
Like we did into you, Bruser and those guys, I was friends with good friends with a number of the
guys in there and and so we're late and the other, you know, all the guys we had friends that were back,
you know, back in the in that task and that was coming to relieve us and it's taking what you're
saying and multiplying it times a lot because when we went to Ramadi, we weren't really sure, you know,
oh, yeah, there's a lot of bad guys there and we'll get after it, but it's different when you get there
and then you start going on operations and you realize, yeah, this is this is this is going to be
a long deployment and the chances of us making it through this deployment without suffering
any casualties is actually zero. It's zero. Like this is not going to happen. And when those
guys came over again, a bunch of great dudes, you know, I talked to him when we got home and then they got home
and one of the guys a good friend of mine and he came and worked with me in the training department
and you know, we would have that conversation a couple times where, you know, Mikey Montsore got
killed, you know, September 29th and those guys were now coming on deployment a week, maybe two weeks
later to come over and start getting a turnover from us. We went home October 21st. So, you know,
when I talked to my buddy that was the senior listed guy, you know, he, he, I said, man, what was
that like? And he goes, we were training so hard. You know, there's no, they were just a hundred
a thousand percent training because we'd send him back, hey, make sure you're in good shape,
make sure you can run, make sure you can do body carries, make sure you, because they're
running on the beach, you can do a buddy carries all the time. They were training so hard because
they're thinking of themselves, you know, this is it. This is going to be a different kind of
deployment. And we're actually going to probably have one of those guys from that follow-in
deployment on the podcast, who's a stud. So, we'll get him on here in the near future.
All right. Going back to the book, the discipline of the Greeks was secured by exercises and
rewards. The discipline of the Romans was secured also by the fear of death. They put to death
with the club. They decimated their cowardly or traitorous units. They clubbed them to death, clubbed
them to death. In order to conquer enemies that terrified his men, a Roman general heightened their
morale, not by enthusiasm, but by anger. He made the life of his soldiers miserable by excessive
work and privations. He stretched the force of discipline to the point where at a critical incident,
instant, it must break or expend itself on the enemy. That's that's that's crazy. And it's actually
there's a great little clip on YouTube of a Marine. I think it's I think it's a sergeant major in
Rekorbe. He's given a little talk to his boys before they roll out. And he's just he's awesome.
And he's saying, why do you think we don't feed you good? We want you to be pissed off. We want you to be
pissed off. You got there kicked their ass. That's what they're this is saying. Only, you know, the
Marine is being somewhat facetious and playful about it. This guy's not. They made life hard for these
guys. And again, you can see that even that's it. There's a line. There's a dichotomy like you could
go too far. Now you're going to get some kind of rebellion. You get it where it's either going to break
the guys or if you do it perfect, they'll take that rage and they'll use it against the enemy.
Yeah, kind of like they do with dogs. Yeah, like if you have seen fighting dogs, yeah, for sure. They do that.
Back to the book, but discipline alone does not constitute superior tactics.
Men in battle, I repeat, is a being in whom the instinct of self preservation dominates, even at
certain moments, all other sentiments. Discipline has for its aim, the domination of that instinct
to buy a greater terror. Okay, so you got, you're going to be scared. Discipline, the goal of discipline
is to shut down and dominate that fear instinct. Back to the book, but it cannot dominate it completely.
I do not deny the glorious examples where discipline and devotion have elevated man above himself.
But if these examples are glorious, it is because they are rare. If they are admired, it is because
they are considered exceptions and the exception proves the rule. So obviously, we have heroes.
I have guys, I my tasked it, were that level of heroes that overcame every instinct of self discipline
or of self preservation to do their job. Back to the book, the determination of that
instinct, where man loses his reasoning power and becomes instinctive is the crowning achievement
in the science of combat. So what he's saying, there is understanding that what that where that
line is with people is the crowning achievement. If you know that, if you know where that line is,
that's the crowning achievement. In the back of the book, in general, here was the strength of the
Roman tactics. In particular cases, such successful determination makes handables and
seizures. They understood their men. Combat took place between masses in more or less
formate deep formation, commanded and supervised by leaders with a definite mission.
Leaders understood the mission. The combat between masses was a series of individual
conflicts juxtaposed with the front rank man fighting a love. If he fell, if he was wounded or
worn out, he was replaced by the man in the second rank who had watched and guarded his flanks.
This procedure continued up to the last rank. Man is always physically and morally
fatigued in hand to hand tournament where he employees all of his energy. These contests lasted
but a short time. With morale, with like morale, the least fatigued always win. So
conditioning, literally we're talking about combat conditioning right there. That's what we're talking
about. During this engagement of the first two ranks, the one fighting the other watching
close at hand, the men of the near ranks waited inactive at two paces distance for their
turning combat. So imagine this echo, I'm in the front and you're behind me, two paces,
and you're gonna watch me fight. So that's what he's talking about right here.
At two paces for their turning combat, which would come only when their predecessor were killed,
wounded or exhausted, they were impressed by the violent fluctuations of the struggle of the first rank.
They heard the clashes and the blows and distinguished perhaps those that sank into the flesh.
They saw the wounded, the exhausted crawl through the intervals to go to the rear.
Passive spectators of danger, they were forced to await its terrible approach.
These men were subjected to the poignant emotions of combat without being supported by the
animation of the struggle. They were thus placed under moral pressure of the greatest of anxieties.
Often they could not stand it until their turn came. They gave way. So that's just a crazy way to
think about combat. You're standing behind me, I'm fighting, I get clubbed in the head, they stabbed
me in the chest, I'm dead. And actually, that didn't happen fast, let's say it took two minutes.
You're standing there watching me, you're like, oh, go, hey, and then also get killed.
Then I'm up. And then you're up. Yeah, that's when he says like the most anxiety.
Yeah, the most imagine you're four guys back. Well, yeah, you're four guys back. And I can totally
confirm this in combat. The time when you're waiting to go is the worst. Like we get to a
pre staging point and now you're waiting to go, okay, you've got all the stuff going through your
mind, what if this happens, what if this happens, what if this guys moves, what if they do this,
you've got all this turmoil going in your mind. And you're not even, they're not talking about
this situation where you're watching your guy get stabbed in the throat, right? And just standing there
watching it waiting for him to go down so you can step up and by the way, you know, like you know
me. And so if you see me get crushed and but when we train, I'm crushing you. You know, you're
laughing. Yeah, right? Because you know, a jocco, he's good with the sword. Oh, he's got stabbed
neck. Now I got to take his place against Billy Badass, my enemy. And I don't say the chance.
Yeah, that's right. So that's why you say it a lot of these, a lot of times these people turned
and gave way. So this is a little bit different. Listen to this. Back to the book,
the best tactics were those that made easiest a succession of efforts by assuring the relief
by ranks of unit in action, actually engaging only the necessary units and keeping the rest as
support or reserve outside of the immediate sphere of moral tension. So don't put those guys right there
where they can see all the stuff going on. Back to the book, the superiority of the Romans lay in
such tactics and in the terrible discipline which prepared and assured the execution by their resistance
against fatigue, which rude and continually continual tasks gave them and by the renewal of
combatants in combat, they secured continuity of effort greater than anyone else. So did you notice
this part, their resistance against fatigue came from rude and continual tasks. So these guys
were just getting ground all the time. Basically they lived a hard life working or basic work and
out. I'm sure it was wouldn't be what we consider like a Metcon, but they were hard. And because
they were tough and they were hard, they're physically stronger and more physically conditioned.
They did better. And you know, Dan Gable, I think I forget the exact quote, but you know,
the great American wrestler, Dan Gable, conditioning is the ultimate equalizer. If you get time,
you feel listen to you all the time. You someone gets tired or MMA, someone gets tired. It's game over.
It's game over. You can, I can crush anybody when they're tired. You give me, you give me
anybody and you force them to do 100 burpees and 75 kettlebell swings and you know, as fast as they can
and let me in the ring with them. I'll get anybody. Because they already got worn out. So
this is actually, this is, like I said, he does a lot of, I didn't go into a lot of these,
but this is Caesar's account of a battle against the Pompeians and at the battle of
Farsalas. So I'm not going to read the whole thing, but it's pretty, there's some pretty cool points in here.
Again, it's pretty cool that, you know, I like first person accounts of things, right? Let's get
a first person account from Caesar up in here. And what's cool, well, he writes, he refers to himself
in the third person for whatever reason. I'm sure there's some reason for that, but that's what he does.
Here we go. Caesar, in the meanwhile, our soldiers at the given signal advanced with
javelins in hand, but having noticed that that Pompey's soldiers were not running towards them
and taught by experience and trained by previous battles, they slowed down and stopped in the midst of
the run in order not to arrive out of breath and worn out. That's pretty legit. They're like,
these guys aren't running towards us. We don't need to run towards them. Save our breath.
Some moments after having taken up their run again, they launched their javelins and immediately
afterwards, according to Caesar's order, drew their swords. The Pompeyans conducted themselves
perfectly little compliments to the enemy. They received the darts courageously, they did not
stir before the dash of the legions, they preserved their lines and having dispatched their javelins
drew their swords. At the same time, Pompey's entire cavalry dashed from the left wing as had been
ordered and the mass of his archers ran from all parts of the line. Our cavalry did not await
the charge, but fell back a little. Pompey's cavalry became more pressing and commenced to reform
its quadrants and turn our exposed flank. As soon as Caesar saw this intention, he gave the
signal to the fourth line of six cohorts. This line started directly and standards low. They charged
the Pompey and cavalry with such vigor and resolution that not a single man stood his ground.
All wheeled about this would happen when you flank people. All wheeled about and not only with
Jew and full flight, but gained the highest mountains as fast as they could. They left the
archers and slingers without their defense and protection. These were all killed. At the same time,
the cohorts moved to the rear of Pompey's left wing, which was still fighting and resisting and
attacked it in rear. Meanwhile, Caesar had advanced his third line, which up to this moment had
been quietly kept quietly at its post. These fresh troops relieved those that were fatigued.
Pompey's men taken in rear could no longer hold out and all took to flight.
Caesar was not in error when he put these cohorts in a fourth line, particularly charged with
meeting the cavalry and urged them to do well since their effort would bring victory. They
repulse the cavalry. They cut to pieces the slingers and arches. They turned Pompey's left wing
and this decided the day. Caesar lost in this battle 200 soldiers, but nearly 30 of the brave
centurions were killed therein. Of Pompey's army of 15,000 perished, and more than 24,000 took refuge
in the mountains as Caesar had invested in the mountains with entrenchment. They surrendered the
following day. That's one of the things that DuPique points out. He does a lot of comparisons and we'll
get to some of them in the differences between ancient combat and modern combat and one of the big
things that he points out is in ancient combat. The winner would take very, very small amounts of
casualties and the loser would be exterminated in many cases. And what's different about modern
battle, world war two, world war one, the victor and the loser. They're both going to take
really bad casualties. In fact, sometimes they take almost the same amount of casualties. In fact,
sometimes the loser of the battle takes less casualties or takes more casualties. The winner
takes more casualties, but they had more people. They had better maneuverability. They dropped
bombs or whatever. So that's a really different thing. And that gets into the mental state because
think about if you, if you and I were fighting in a battle. Sure. And we knew that if we lost,
we would die. You're going to fight harder. You're going to be more aggressive. And when and
if the battle started to turn, you were going to run to try and save yourself.
Whereas in modern warfare, we take prisoners, you can survive and you can live the fight another
day. So you know what, hey, we're starting, I'm just going to surrender, but give up on the, you know,
you're not going to fight with that same kind of bigger.
Now, there's a comment in here. The order to await the charge given by Pompeii to his infantry
was judged to severely by Caesar. Caesar certainly was right as a general rule. The enthusiasm of the
troops must not be dampened. And the initiative of the attack indeed gives to the assailant
a certain moral influence. So clearly, if your boys, your team is aggressively getting after it,
it's not a good idea to pull the reins on them. They got the momentum. They're going,
they're fired up, let them go, let them rock and roll. Obviously, you don't want to let them run to your
death, but you want to maintain that momentum to the best of your ability.
Mm.
Now talking a little bit about morale in ancient battle. This is some of the stuff again that I,
I, I've been saying back to the book. It was customary among good troops to have a clash,
but not the blind and headlong onset of the mass. The preoccupation of the rank was very great.
As the behavior of Caesar troops at Farla, Farcales shows in their slow march. At the moment
of getting close to the enemy, the dash slacking to of its own accord, because the men of the
first rank of necessity and instinctively assured themselves of the position of their supports,
their neighbors in the same line, their comrades in the second, and collected themselves together
in order to be more the masters of their movement and strike and strike and parry. So that,
that's not an order that was given. Those guys instinctively, they're getting close to the enemy,
they slow down, they check their flanks, they check that they're good to go, they check that their
buddies are behind them, now we're going to go forward, because, and I think that's important because
it says, in order to be more masters of their movements, they're slowing down so they're ready.
Back to the book, there was a contact of man with man. Each took the adversary in front of him and
attacked him because by penetrating into the ranks before having struck him down, he risked being wounded
in the side by losing his flanks' support. So these guys tried to stay in ranks, because even if
even if I'm going against you and I chop you down, if I now step into your ranks, now I'm exposed.
My flanks were exposed, so I can't do that. We got to stay online. This is something we still
do in the military today. We got to stay online. Each one then hit his man with his shield,
expecting to make him lose his equilibrium and at the end, and at the instant he tried to recover
himself landed the blow. The men in the second line, back of the intervals necessary for fencing
in the first were ready to protect their sides against anyone that advanced between them and were
prepared to relieve tired warriors. There's the same in the third line, so that's what we already
talked about. By the way, this is a cover and move. This is ancient cover and move. If I need some help,
you're going to be right there to cover for me. If I'm fighting guy in front of me, you're
covering my flanks. That's where it is. It's ancient cover and move. Back to the book. Everyone being
supported on the other side. The first encounter was rarely decisive and defencing the real combat
at close quarters began. So after that initial, now is when we get, now is where it gets gritty.
If the men of the first line were wounded quickly, if the other ranks were not in a hurry to
relieve or replace them, or if there was hesitation, defeat followed. This happened to the Romans
in their first encounter with the Gauls. The Gaul, with his shield, parried the first thrust,
brought his big iron sword swooping down with fury upon the top of the Roman shield, split it
and went after the man. So the Gauls had some big swords, big guys, and they figured out a little
tactic technique in procedure. Oh, you got that little round shield. Cool. I'm going to hack it right
in half and that's what they did. The Romans already hesitating before the more impulse of the Gauls
the Gauls, their ferocious yells. So this is the Gauls, their ferocious yells, their newdness
and indication of a contempt for wounds. So the guy that you're fighting is naked or like not wearing
armor, which says, oh, I'm ready to bring it. The you want to beat me in a street fight, be naked.
I'm not going to fight you. I'm not not not happening. Fell then in greater number than their
adversaries and do demoralization followed. Soon, they accustomed themselves to this
valorous but not tenacious spirit of their enemies. And this is pretty cool. Back to book when they
had protected the tops of their shields with an iron band. They no longer fell and the rolls were
changed so they made a little adaptation. Oh, you're going to hack the top of our shields cool
of an iron band in there. What he got now, Gaul. Bring it. If the weapons were nearly alike
preserving ranks and thereby breaking down, driving back and confusing the ranks the enemy
was to conquer. The man in disordered broken lines no longer felt himself supported but vulnerable
everywhere and he fled. Think about that psychology. So as you start seeing the blinds breaking
down, you don't feel like you're getting supported anymore, boom, I'm out. It is true that it's
hardly possible to break hostile lines without doing the same with one's own. But the one who
breaks through first has been able to do so only by making the foe fall back before his blows
or by killing or wounding. He is thereby raised his courage and that of his neighbor.
Common sense. If I see my buddy take that guy out, I'm getting more fired up. He knows
he sees where he is marching whilst the adversary overtaken as a consequent of the retreat or the
fall of troops that were flanking him, he's surprised. This is just Giz just group mentality,
gang mentality. Is that right group thought? Group think. I start seeing my guys get crushed. I'll
be to get scared. He sees himself exposed on the flank. He falls back on a line with their rank
in the rear in order to regain support. But the lines in the rear give way to retreat to the
retreat of the first. If the withdrawal has a certain duration, terror comes as a result of the
blows which drive back and mowed down the first line. If to make room for those pushed back,
the last lines turn their backs. There's small chance that they will face the front again.
Space has tempted them. They will not return to fight. Then by that natural instinct of the soldier
to worry to assure himself of his supports, the contagion of flight spreads from the last ranks
to the first. The first closely engaged has been held to the fight in the meantime under the pain
of immediate death. There is no need to explain what follows. It is butchery.
You can see how important it would be to understand those dynamics of what's going to happen
into a ply your tactics and a manner that as they said in the as Dupique says in the beginning,
you look apply your tactics or formulate your tactics with that understanding of human nature.
Little interesting note here. Sword Dessord combat was the most deadly. They presented the most
sudden changes because it was the one in which the individual valor and dexterity of the combat
had the greatest and most immediate influence. That sword fighting is what takes the most skill.
So I assume that means if I've got a javelin or if I've got a spear it takes less skill. You get
man on man with the sword. That's where things count. That's where your skill level counts the most.
You can maneuver more with it. I'll be clubbed. I hope I can land it. We know from doing
geetsu that you can get really good. And if you go anybody that does geetsu goes against someone
that doesn't do geetsu, they annihilate him. So imagine the training that you do with the sword when you
knew that how much it was going on and just healing guys. Back to the book. Man always has had
the greatest fear of being trampled upon by horses. This is a section talking about cavalry.
That fear has certainly routed a hundred thousand times more men than the real encounter.
So the reason I put that in there is because the geetsu saying hey people are scared of horses.
They're scared of getting trampled by horses. And that fear of horses has done more to win battles
than to the actual horses. You know we did some, you know for us the US military,
we're going against a gnarly enemy. We can put the fear into them too. We have closer support
coming in and start dropping bombs or even flying over. We did, we would have, you know if we didn't
have a specific target but we knew bad guys were around. We would shoot like fields. Start dropping
bombs and fields. If like deterrent fires. Hey get these guys. Hey put us in deterrent. There's a
field over here. Yes we got no friendly in that area. Do you see anything? No drop some bombs in there.
Send some shock waves on these bad guys. Same thing. You're scared of the horses. You're scared
of a AC 130 or an A10 coming down and getting after it or a cobra gunship or an Apache. Yeah those
things are fearsome machines of death. And when the enemy knows those things are around they're
going to run. They're going to hide. Can't always run or hide from a person from a Apache or a US gunship.
All right back to the book. If we have spoken especially of the infantry fight is because
it was the most serious on foot, on horseback, on the bridge of a vessel at the moment of
dayager, the same man has always found. So he's saying like we're talking about infantry and we just
talked a little bit about horses but it doesn't matter what the fighting situation is. The same
man has always found. Anyone who knows him well reduces from his action in the past what his action
will be in the future. So understand that human nature. And here we start talking about again it's
this same theme. Back to the book. Let us repeat now what we've said at the very beginning of this
study. Man does not enter battle to fight but for victory. He does everything he can to avoid
the first and obtain the second. The continued improvement of all appliances of war has no other
goal than the annihilation of the enemy. Absolute bravery which does not refuse battle even on
unequal terms trusting only to God or destiny is not natural in man. It is the result of moral
culture. So that's that's pretty that's pretty poignant, right? Because I've seen some absolute
bravery and there's thousands of individual stories of absolute bravery in our culture, in our
US culture and that's because of our moral culture that's where it comes from. Back to the book
it is infinitely rare because in the face of danger the animal case of self preservation always gains
the upper hand. Man has a horror of death. In the bravest a great sense of duty which they alone are
capable of understanding and living up to is paramount. But the mass always cowers at the site of the
phantom death. Discipline is for the purpose of dominating that horror by still greater horror, that of punishment,
or disgrace. So he's talking about you know what and Tony said this and this is a common
team guy thing to say you know I would rather die than look like a pussy and it's like oh yeah
ha ha no actually it's true that's that's an actual feeling it's an actual thought for sure
and that's what he's saying people would rather die than be disgraced and that's powerful
but there always comes an instant when natural horror gets the upper hand over discipline and the
fighter flees. Stop stop hold out a few minutes and instant more and you are the victor you are not
even wounded if you turn your back you are dead. He does not hear he cannot hear anymore he is full of fear.
How many armies have sworn to conquer or perish? How many have kept their oaths?
An oath of sheep to stand up against wolves. History shows not armies but firm souls who have
fought unto death and the devotion of thermopoli is therefore justly immortal so the Spartans
the 300 Spartans there's a reason why that is any immortal story because it's rare and it's not a
whole army it's 300 Spartans and obviously we've seen examples of guys doing the same kind of thing
but that's why they're heroes. To ensure success in the rude test of conflict it is not
sufficient to have a mass composed of valiant men the mass needs and we give it leaders who have
firmness and decision of command proceeding from habit and an entire faith in their unquestimal
right to command as established by tradition law and society. So step number one you need good leadership
step number one you need good leadership. Bunch of valiant men is not going to be enough you need
good leadership step number one. Step number two we add good arms we add methods of fighting
suitable to these arms and those of the enemy and which do not overtax the physical and moral
forces of man so you gotta give them good weapons and the weapons have gotta be easy to use
and suitable for the enemy that you're going against. Next we add also a rational decentralization
that permits the direction and employment of the efforts of all even to the last man so we have
decentralized command. I believe life and I wrote about that. Yep it's one of the fundamental principles
of combat leadership. Next we animate with passion a violent desire for independence, a religious
fanaticism, a rational pride, a love of glory, a madness for possession and iron discipline which
permits no one to escape action secures the greatest unity from top to bottom between all elements
between the commanding officers between the commanding officers and the man in between the soldiers.
So those are a series of things that you can have that can fuel this right. A passion, a
violent desire for independence, religious fanaticism, these are things that people fight for,
a national pride, a love of glory, a madness for possession, think about that. You need what
of those elements. Have we then a solid army? Not yet. Unity, the first and supreme force of
armies is sought by enacting severe laws of discipline supported by powerful passions.
But to order discipline is not enough, a vigilance from which no one may escape and combat
should assure the maintenance of discipline. Discipline itself depends on moral pressure
which activates men to advance from sentiments of fear or pride. But it depends also on surveillance
the mutual supervision of groups of men who know each other well. You've got to have relationships.
You've got a relationship and then the relationship has to have inherent in it. This attitude of like
echo, if I see you slacking, I'm going to call you out on it. Hey bro, we don't do that here.
That's not how we roll. You need to get your game on. And that's to get this mutual supervision of each other.
Based on pride. Back to the book, a wise organization ensures that the personnel of combat
groups changes as little as possible so that comrades and peacetime maneuvers shall be comrades and
war from living together and obeying the same chiefs, from commanding the same men, from sharing
fatigue and rest, from cooperation among men who quickly understand each other in the execution of
warlike movements may be bread, brotherhood, professional knowledge, sentiment and above all unity.
So what are we talking about there? You're building this strong bond between the people that are
inside this unit. That's what you want to do and how do you do it? You're a trainem hard. They live
together. They work together. They listen to the same boss. They command the same people. That's what
you do. And that's when you look at military units, that's what makes them good. You go through that.
You go through that hard training. You get to know your people. You build those relationships.
The duty of obedience, the right of imposing discipline and the impossibility of escaping from it
would naturally follow. And now confidence appears. And you know what this sounds like? It sounds like a gang.
And I often said about task unit, bruiser, that I was in charge of a gang. Awesome gang.
I've been an awesome gang. I did good things for the world, but they were a gang.
Gang mentality for sure. You didn't want to, you didn't want to get called out by the gang.
You just didn't want that to happen. When someone was messing up, when someone was doing the wrong
thing, someone's cutting corners, task unit bruiser wasn't going to be, they were going to be on you.
It would be on you. I never had to say anything. Guys, we're driving, we barely see it.
But I'd hear about it as kind of a snoozing. We tighten them up.
Oh, yeah, I'd get to go. Good to go. Back to the book. Then we have an army.
And there's no longer difficult to explain how men carry away by passions, even men who know
how to die without flinching, without turning pale, really strong in the presence of death,
but without discipline, without solid organization, are vanquished by others,
individually less valiant, but firmly, jointly, and severely combined.
So, you know what you see this in the business world? You see this in the business world where
where you meet people in the business world that are really passionate about what they're doing.
They're really passionate. They're really into it. They've created something. They're really
into it. They want to succeed. They're vusting their ass. They're really passionate about it,
but they don't have the discipline. And if you don't have the discipline, the passion is not
enough. You have to have the discipline too. And I don't tell you this, the passion, the discipline,
the passion is also equally weak. Maybe not as weak. But it's equally weak.
It's close. We'll say close. Unity and confidence cannot be improvised.
They alone can create mutual trust that feeling of force which gives courage and daring.
Courage, that is the temporary domination of will over instinct brings about victory.
Unity alone then produces fighters. But as in everything, there are degrees of unity.
Let us see whether modern is in this respect less exacting than ancient combat.
These are very cool examples right here. Sometimes I'm like, I really read that whole thing.
And then I think, oh yeah, I'm going to read the whole thing.
So this, but these are just very cool because you're going to get a direct comparison of
ancient combat psychologically and modern combat psychologically. And to understand one,
it's good to have a frame of reference of the other. Back to the book, in ancient combat,
there was danger only at close quarters. If the troops had enough morale to meet the enemy at
broad source length, there was an engagement. Whoever was that close new that he would be killed,
if he turned his back. Because as if we have seen, the victors lost but a few
and the vanquished works exterminated. That's this simple reasoning held the men and made them fight.
If it was but for an instant. So we already talked about that. You think you're going to die?
You're going to fight or die? You're going to fight. You're going to release give it a shot.
Neglecting the exceptional and very rare circumstances, which may bring two forces together,
action today is brought out on and fought out from afar. Danger begins at great distances.
And it is necessary to advance for a long time under fire at each step with the
in which each step becomes heavier. The vanquished loses prisoners but often,
in dead and wounded, he does not lose more than the victor. Sorry, I talked about that.
Ancient combat was fought in groups close together with a small space in open ground in full
view of one another without the deafening noise of present day arms. Men information,
marches into action that took place on the spot and did not carry them thousands of feet away
from the starting point. The surveillance of the leaders was easy. Individual weakness was immediately
checked. General consternation alone caused flight. Today, fighting is done over immense
spaces. Along thinly drawn outlines broken every instant by the accidents and the obstacles of the terrain.
From time from the time action begins as soon as there are rifle shots, the men spread out as
skirmishers or lost in the inevitable disorder of the rapid march escape the supervision of their
commanding officers. Considerable number, conceal themselves. They get away from the engagement and
diminished by just so much the material morale effect and confidence of the brave one,
ones who remain. This can bring about defeat. Modern combat and again were in 1860s.
You start charging and the lines broken up and the commanding officer can't so if you're thinking
maybe you want to just live through this one, you might just get down a little trench, get down a little
depression, get behind a tree and sit there and wait. But if we're online in ancient combat,
there was nowhere to go. The commander could see you and your buddies could see you. Back to the book.
But let us look at man himself and ancient and modern combat. In ancient combat, this is cool.
In ancient combat, I am strong, apt, vigorous, trained, full of calmness, presence of mind.
I have good offensive and defensive weapons and trustworthy companions of long-standing.
They do not let me be overwhelmed without aiding me. I with them, they with me,
we are invincible even invulnerable. We have fought 20 battles and not one of us remained on the field.
It is necessary to pour each other into support each other in time.
Covered move. We see it clearly. We are quick to replace ourselves to put a fresh combatant in front of
a fatigue adversary. We are the legions, 50,000 who have held out against the furious avalanches of
the Kimberi. We have killed 140,000 taking prisoner 60,000 while losing but two or 300 of our
inexperienced soldiers. That is sort of a mentality. Back in the day. When I say back in the
day, I am talking ancient times, way back in the day. Now here is the modern soldier, at least 1860
soldier. Today, as strong, firm, trained and courageous as I am, I can never say I shall return.
I have no longer to do with men who might do not fear. I have to do with fate in the form
of iron and lead. Death is in the air, invisible and blind, whispering, whistling, as brave,
good trustworthy and devoted as my companions may be. They do not shield me.
Only, and this is abstract and less immediately intelligible to all than the material support of
ancient combat. Only I imagine that the more numerous who we are who run a dangerous risk,
the greater is the chance for which for each to escape their from. I also know that, if we have
confidence which none of us should lack in action, we feel stronger and we are. We begin more
resolutely, are ready to keep up the struggle longer and therefore finish it more quickly. But that
is just, you know, I've talked about World War I, I don't like World War I, I don't want to fight
World War I because you know, as a matter of a tactician, you are, you are just going to charge
and it's going to be horrible. Well, if you take that a step further, I guess I would love to be
in a situation where I'm fighting with a sword against another guy, because now I could have
trained, I could rely on the guy next to me. We could, you have so much control because even
World War II, any, any other modern war, like he's just saying, you're not scared of the enemy
necessarily, you're scared of a random bullet, you're scared of a random piece of sharp no hitting
you and that's could come at any time. So it's the psychology is very, very different.
Back to the modern soldier here, we finish it, but in order to finish it is necessary to advance
to attack the enemy and infantrymen or troopers, we are naked against iron, naked against
lead, which cannot miss at close range. So again, you against me with a sword, we got a battle,
right? You against me with a gun if you get your shot off him dead. Is it? I'm naked against that.
There's no shield. I'm going to stop it. I mean, now we have body armor, but your chance
of getting hit in the body armor, although it's saved many, many lives, but it's not a
definitely not a guarantee. Let us advance in any case, resolute the our adversary will not
stand up to the point blank range of our rifle. For the attack is never mutual, we are sure of that.
We've been told so a thousand times that we have seen it, but what if matters should change now?
Suppose the enemy stands at point blank range, what if it then? So you say, you know, who's
going to stand up when you have a point blank range? How far is that from Roman confidence?
In another place, we have shown that an ancient times to retire from action was both
difficult and perilous matter for the soldier. Today, the temptation is much stronger.
The facility greater and the peril less. Now, therefore combat execs more, more cohesion,
greater unity than previously. So that's exactly what I was talking about earlier. If it
will modern combat, you know, little ditched to hide and find a little doorway, you're going to get
into, especially in this kind of, you know, this is a little bit pre-world war one, obviously,
but they're still charging, right? They're still getting up and charging.
So because everyone's all disaggregated across the battlefield, here we go, back to the
book, Supervision becomes more and more difficult. Direction being more distant,
tends to be, tends more often to escape from the Supreme Commanders and the subordinate leaders.
The certain and inevitable disorder, which a body of troops always presents an action,
is with moral effect of modern appliances becoming greater every day. So we are getting more and
more spread out in the battlefield. In the midst of the confusion and the vast
relation of firing lines, men and officers often lose each other. Now, we have some improvements
nowadays. You know, we've got radios that are going to travel longer distances. We've got devices
that allow people to know each other are. So there's some things there that we've closed up a little
bit, but if you think your radio is always going to work on the battlefield here. That's why
decentralized command is so important. Back to the book, in troops which do the fighting the
men and officers closest to them from corporal to batain commander have a more independent action
than ever. Right. We've got to have our troops know what's going on. As it is alone, the
bigger of that action, more independent than ever, the direction of higher commanders,
which leaves the hands of higher commanders available forces, which can be directed at a decisive
moment. The action becomes more preponderant than ever. Battles now more than ever are battles
of men and captains. So this is pure decentralized command. It's pure, letting making sure that
everyone knows what the commander's intent is and they can execute out of the battlefield without
you having to tell them what to do. They better know what to do on their own.
This completes the demonstration of the truth state before. Combat requires today in order to
give the best results a moral cohesion. A unity more binding than at any other time.
It is as true as it is clear that if one does not wish the bonds to break, one must make
them elastic in order to strengthen them. Very, very, very, very, very, very poignant that. Right?
Because the more we train control things, the less control we're going to have in these
matte modern combat and it business and in life the more constructive you are that the more rigid
you are, the less control you're going to have. It's just not going to be able to flex and flow
with all the craziness that happens out on the battle. It's not going to work.
decentralized command all day. Back to the book, the art of wars subjected to many modifications
by industrial and scientific progress, but one thing does not change the heart of man.
In the last analysis, success in battles a matter of morale. In all matters which pertain to an
army, organization, discipline and tactics, the human heart in the supreme moment of battle is the
basic factor. It is rarely taken into account and often strange errors are the result. Witness the
carbine and accurate long-range weapon which has never given the service expected of it because it
was used mechanically without considering the human heart we must consider it. With improvement in
weapons, the power of destruction increases, the moral effect of such weapon increases and
courage to face them becomes rare. Man does not cannot change. What should increase the power of material
is the strength of organization, the unity of the fighting machine. Yet these are the most neglected.
So we run into this all time with with echelon front, right? We are leadership.
That's what we talk about. That's what we talk about as leadership. And oftentimes when we work
with a company, what their focus on trying to fix the problem that they have, they focus on
the symptom, right? They focus on the process that this must be messed up or we've got people that
aren't following our instructions or we've got growth that we're trying to maintain and it's not
coming out the way we want to. But they're looking at, they're not looking at the human heart, right?
And that's the first thing we look at. That's the main thing we look at. And I'll tell you this
100% of the time when we go to a company and no matter what the problem is, no matter what the
problem is, I will tell you the solution of the problem is with the leadership period in the story,
period in the story. Oh, we've got a process that's messed up. Okay, who's in charge of the process?
Give me that person's name. I'll talk him. Let's get a leadership working.
Oh, we've got decisions that are being made. Well, that's a leadership problem. We've got manufacturing.
That's that's not up to speed. It's not good quality. Is that the manufacturing problem?
Is that the problem with the machines? No, there's a leader. That's in charge of that.
That is allowing this slack to happen. It is about leadership. It is about the human heart.
It's what is it about? What is it about? He said that before about morale.
Talk about morale. I think even one of the books said they do something to lower their morale.
Like they're attacking their morale. I think I feel like everything might have been the
chetions of a forget. Yeah, but well, every army does that. Oh, they try to attack the morale of the enemy.
If you can beat the morale, you're going to beat the army in many cases. Yeah, because so it's kind of like
if you make them not want to fight, they're not going to really want to fight or not going to fight.
That's what makes you know in the Vietnam War, what hurt our morale so bad, booby traps.
What hurt our morale so bad, mortar fire, sniper fire, and you're losing guys,
but you're not having anyone to engage against. Yeah. And you're not taking any ground holding it.
That's one thing they did nicely in Iraq. We could see that we were making progress.
And so although we'd take, you know, your hard-brying stand talk about it in the area where he was,
there was progress was made. And you can look at it and see it. And so therefore you're making these sacrifices,
but you know that there's progress occurring. Yeah. And so that you're taking hits to your morale,
but your morale is also building back up because you know that you're making progress. Yeah.
This is an interesting comment.
For brave men who do not know each other will not dare attack a lion.
For less brave, but knowing each other well, sure of their reliability and consequently of mutual aid,
will attack resolutely. There is the science of organization of armies in a nutshell.
Now this is kind of a strange thing to me because I understand what he's saying.
But I have no, I don't know what they mean by attack a lion.
Well, we got guns. Do we have swords? It seems like a lion.
Before guys, I don't like those chances. What do you do? You can't do a take down on a lion.
You do the Matalio. Yeah, I know you did a mountain lion. Yeah, I understand that.
But I think it was a metaphor. Yeah. No, I know. It's a good metaphor. But I try to take things, you know,
or sometimes I think a thing is a realistic way. If you ever seen the claws on a lion, yeah.
Yeah, no, no. Four guys, there was a lion. I don't think it's going to work out. Good. If you have no weapons.
If you have some weapons, but you don't want to be the one guy like, you know, the sacrificial guy that does the first attack.
So I can get to the neck. Echo. You run at him, bro. I got your back.
I'm going to run up and stab it in the head. But that's after you got a
jugular removed by his claw. But see what he's saying is if you can rely on me. Yeah, for sure.
You'll do it. I don't know if I can really rely on myself being the big though.
Check. Back to the book. Anytime a new invention may assure victory. At any time a new
invention may assure victory. Granted, but practical weapons are not invented every day and nations quickly put themselves on the same footing
and as regards to armament. The determining factor leaving aside
generals of genius and luck is the quality of the troops. That is the organization that best assures the
esprit, reliability, the confidence in the union. Again, we're just talking about the technology comes out.
That's great. There's something more important than that. And that is the the relationships.
The relationships. That's what's most important. Back to the book. The purpose of discipline is to
make men fight in spite of themselves. No army is worth. No army is worthy of the name without discipline.
There is no army at all without organization and organization is defective which neglects
neglects any means to strengthen the unity of combatants. Methods cannot be identical. This is so
so important. Methods cannot be identical. So you can just throw this discipline all the same to
everyone. Listen to this. Tracony in discipline does not fit our customs. Discipline must be a
state of mind, a social institution based on salient virtues and defects of the nations.
Discipline cannot be secured or created in a day. It is an institution. A tradition
the commander must have confidence in his right to command. He must be a customs to command
and proud to command. This is what strengthens discipline in armies commanded by an aristocracy in
certain countries. So I just think it's very important because again, I don't want people to listen
to the podcast to go, that's right. We're going to lay down the discipline now at the company.
Everyone's going to follow the rules. No. It can't be dracony and it's got to be a part of the
culture. People got to want there to be discipline. Very important. Back to the book, ancient
battle resembled drill and when they say drill, you're ever seeing people marching like on a parade
ground. That's drill. Okay. Ancient battle resembled drill. There is no such resemblance in modern
battle. This greatly disconserts both officers and soldiers. Ancient battles were picknicks for the
victors who lost nobody, not so today. Artillery played no part in ancient battle. The invention
of firearms has diminished losses in battle. Again, you can see he was not 100% correct because
he couldn't see into the future, but he's saying at the time there was less losses in battle
because of the firearms. Obviously that turned out to be true just to what 50 years later in World War
one, we get to obscene and horrible levels of casualties from the firearms. Why is that? Because
they can, well, as far as what he said, because they could fire from a safe fire. Yeah, I'm sure
it's because they could fire from a safe spot. And the momentum of the battle and therefore
victory in defeat could occur at a greater distance and it meant that once that occurred,
the people could run away. Yeah. And so we were losing, we're going to run away. Whereas no
days, we're in the game. We start to beat you. I'm hacking your head off and all of the people
with you and you're trying to run away. We got archers lined up and we're all we're all on a football
field. You know, maybe maybe five or six football fields. You know, thousand yards, maybe ten
football fields. We're all there. And when we start getting the upper hand, you're not going to
get away from me. In fact, you're, I mean, according to him, you turn your back to run away. Yeah,
that's guaranteed. Yeah. Whereas, hey, we can retreat. We can surrender. And then we guess what?
I mean, modern modern surrenders, you know, they take place almost like a formal,
yeah, you know, you come in your general comes and surrounds signs the paper and then we take over
your country. Yeah. You know, whatever. Signs of the paper. Yeah, no, they signed, they signed surrender
papers. There really ends your pan, both signed, you know, on conditional surrenders. Yeah,
that sounded kind of like, which is how you're supposed to win wars. Yeah, on conditional surrender.
And then the beloved benevolence of our country says, okay, now we'll, we'll help you rebuild.
And, you know, you can be a square away democracy. Hey, remember, um, just the,
here's a question. So in war, like, if you're, like, on the save of our own,
and there's a small little clip where the guys are like surrendering, and they still shoot them.
Is that like illegal, like, can't do that? Yeah, you're not supposed to do that. Yeah.
Yep. It is illegal. It's against the law of armed combat. Remember, the first Iraq war
when the guys were like, so finding anything they could that was going to happen. I got asked that on
on social media guys like, well, what determines? I said, you know, where you, you have to do the right thing
in combat. So what the sort of who determines the right thing? I was like, well, the Geneva convention
of the law of armed combat. Next question. Like, there's a rule to follow. Yeah. It's like we're pulling
it, you know, out of thin air. Yeah. It's not a, you know, making it up as we go. Yeah, making it
back to the book. The greater perfection of weapons, the more dreadful becomes modern battle
and discipline becomes more difficult to maintain. That's a wide, so awesome. When you see
the US Marine Corps doing the island hopping campaign and the amount of discipline that it takes
to go, when you're dug in and you're in a bunker, you're a Japanese imperial soldier and you're
in a bunker and you have a machine gun and your sights are set on the beach. The amount of
discipline that it takes to go on to that beach is an American Marine or sailor, corpsman or army
soldier that's coming on. It's just incredible. It's absolutely incredibly defies what the peak
is saying. Some of the stuff that the peak says about fear and all this and guys are going to turn.
Apparently, you never work with the US Marine Corps. Apparently, never work with the
hundred first airborne. Those guys? No. I mean, I'm calling out a couple units, but come on,
these guys are, it's amazing. It's amazing. The amount of heroism and discipline to overcome
that that spirit of self-preservation. And obviously, but, you know, tons of special operations
to guys and just it's impressive. It really is. It is very impressive. I was humbled to see that
stuff and with my own two eyes. Back to the book, the nature of ancient arms requires close order
modern arms require open order. And they are at the same time of such terrible power that
against them too often disciplines broken. So imagine this, this is tough because in ancient
war, we're all close together. And so it's easier to maintain discipline. But when we all get spread
out modern war, it's harder to maintain the discipline. Yeah, plus nobody's looking to. Yeah.
Discipline and battle becomes more necessary as ranks become more open. And the material cohesion
of the ranks, not giving confidence. It must spring from a knowledge of comrades and a trust
in officers who must always be present and seen. So leaders, you gotta be seen.
What man today advances with the confidence that rigid discipline and pride of an in himself
gave the Roman soldier, even though the contest is no longer with man, but with fate.
Think about that. The contest in modern warfare oftentimes, not all the time,
is fate. Am I going to step on an ID? Am I going to get hit by a random bullet? Am I going to
there's the war now is much more random. It's much more random. Bad luck can cost your life. Good
luck can save your life. Good tactics will put more luck on your side. Bad tactics will turn luck
against you, but there's always luck involved in modern warfare. So that's what you're up against
your up against fate. So you know what I'll tell you? Like when he talks about this modern warfare
of, you know, and even when I talk about like, hey guys going out the turret, you know,
guys going out on the operation after operation in the money, sometimes you know, guys would think
they're going to die. But a lot of times like, no, I'm not going to get killed. It's not going to happen.
You have the sort of hey, it's not going to happen. If it does, I won't know it. Check.
Let's rock and roll. You know what I mean? It's a different. So I want to make sure that I'm not
making it sound like the lead turret gunner is sitting up there going out tonight. It's the night.
He overcomes that in one of the ways you overcome this. Yeah, that's not going to happen to me.
It's not going to happen to me. You know, we've heard that from some other books. You know, they don't
think it's going to happen to yourself. It's going to happen to that guy. It might happen to the guy
next to me. I'm going to be good to go. It's like when you're on a plane and you think this plane,
you know, if this plane crashes, you know, a big commercial plane jetliner or whatever,
I think I'm going to live. Like, guys, my attitude is like, if this thing crashes, I will live.
You know, I'm going to I will land somewhere and track using my free fall capabilities and I'll
find a pool and I'll track to the pool and then I'll get all spread out in the last minute. I'm
going to, you know, I think I'm going to live like if you fall out of the plane. No, if the plane
explodes in midair, right, and you fall out. Like, you know, those crashes where everyone dies on the plane.
Yes. If I'm on the plane, I'm going to make it. Right. The only one. That's like the attitude.
So you can, you can, if I can have that attitude about being on a plane, I can have that attitude and a
bunch of guys can have that attitude going into combat. Like, hey, I'm not going to get killed.
Bring it. What do you got? Yeah. They can go, I think that's called availability bias. I
think that goes both ways. It's like what's the availability? What availability means it's,
I mean, the way that the reason they call it availability is because it's available in your mind.
Just that thought. You know, it's just, it's, it's, it's, it's basically is that one girl that
lived through one of those crashes back in 1975. I'm like, hey, she could do it. I'm like,
that's good. I remember. I always hear about that hero story, even though all the other millions of
stories everybody that like like winning the lottery. It's why people buy lottery tickets, even though
you'd like the chance of you dying on the way to buy a lot of tickets higher than you winning in the
year. Oh, I'm a little bad. I'm a little bit. It's going to be someone might as well be me.
Can't win if you don't play.
Yeah, so I think I think a lot of guys have that same attitude as I'm talking about. And I know
they do because I talked to them about it. You're not, maybe not specific, but no one's going, oh,
you know, I'm really, you know, I'm really, you know, believe me, we get guys that think they're
going to die every 10 that go out. You know, got some paranoid brothers that'd be like,
and I don't feel good about this one. Because you know, you can be okay, buddy. Yeah, yeah. No, man.
I don't know who, who, who, what's the shot? That's brilliant. Yeah. Even even then they sound
pretty hard to go. Yeah, well, the funny thing is like one of my most paranoid
brothers that was always paranoid who's going to die. He always, in fact, I was going to send him home.
Not, they used the ended deployment. Yeah. And we had planes and we had to fill up the planes with
guys to go home. And one of the other guys, the senior guy said to me like, hey, we need to,
we need to send that guy home. You know, he's really stressed out. And I said, bro, he's not going to
go home. Because I know, yeah. Oh, like if you say, go home, he won't want to go home. Yeah, he's not going
on. Oh, this is the guy that would be like, man, this is what we should be doing this off, man. I
got that feeling about tonight, man. And I'd be a man. It's cool. You know, you're going to be all right.
I think you can be all right, bro. And then so this other senior guy comes to me and says, hey,
you know, you got to get this guy on a plane. And I go, bro, he's not going to go home. I know
him. He's not going home. He's not going to want to go home. Dude, he's freaking out. I go, yeah, this is the
way he is. Just his way of dealing with it. Any good school, you've got to send him home. And I
go, I'm not going to send him home because we'll go ask him if he wants to go home. And I go, okay,
so you know, we're going to launch or something in our little hut. And I go, hey, man, I want to get you
on, you know, one of these early plans going home because fuck you. I'm not going anywhere. I was like,
cool man, rock back. He's like, oh, what do you, he's like, what do you say? He's going to fuck
him? Okay, cool. Look, guys, we can stay here. And, you know what, he did 10 more deployments after that
deployment, you know what I mean? So he's a guy that like, like, I don't know, that's just the way
he dealt with it. Yeah. With it through, bit. It's voicing and voicing is nervousness, but he just did
it out loud. Change smoke and cigarettes. Get an after it and would never ever want to stay back
off an operational matter. What it was, he said, you know, if I ever didn't put him on the
forced list of the guys going out, he'd come to me like, what's the problem? Give me on there.
Oh, yeah, bro. I can't leave him back. Yeah, it's just how, so it was, it probably wasn't the kind where
he really did want to go home, but like how you say in the earlier, the culture kind of, I don't know what's
inside of his head. Yeah. But definitely part of it is like, hey, I'm not going to be a pussy. I'm,
I might be talking like I'm scared. Yeah. And like I don't want to do this. Don't you dare
try and send me home. Yeah. Yeah. Now let me have another cigarette. I get after it. And yeah,
actually that guy just retired one of my, one of my awesome brothers. Well, when, when they say,
when the guys are like, oh, it's not going to happen to me, right? When you know about tying
and stuff, is that do you think that they really feel that it's not going to happen to me? Or is that
a thing that they sort of tell themselves? Well, I can tell you that oftentimes I did not think
I could be killed. Yeah. You know anyway, this is not going to happen. Right. I bring it. Yeah. Go ahead,
bring it. And and I guess part of that a little 10% of that was like, hey, if I do get killed,
whatever, I could go, you know, this is this kind of a good way to die. Right. I don't mind that way of
dying, getting killed in combat. Right. I'm a Viking with a sword and I want to die within my hands.
I don't want to die the way I'm going to die now. You know, now I got to live and
get, do all this stuff. Right. That's pretty cool too. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. So, but technically. Yeah.
But so there's a little bit of that. But I think guys probably fall in that whole spectrum. Yeah.
Guys just didn't think they would get killed. And guys that just said they didn't think they
could get killed. And guys that thought they really didn't get killed, but really didn't think they
were getting killed. There's just man, you know what's going on. So as people inside people
head, but what you got to do is pay as much attention to it as you can. And always be looking at
people and trying to gauge where they're at mentally. Because yeah, it does. It does
freak people out, you know, the continual specter of death. They can hang heavy. That's the end.
And you know, I was never exposed to the kind of things that these people were going through.
And World War II going on to go on to a beach going on where you're, you know, we're going to take
40% casualties first two waves. You know, that means you're looking at your body like, okay,
one of us ain't going to make it or one of us is at least going to get wounded bad. I was doing
some more, I was doing some reading, you know, just some World War II reading. It's just crazy.
How those guys were going, I mean, D days the same thing. D day, they found that you're going
to take even worse casualties and they did. You know, actually the first goal for, I remember here in
a port on on the news. I think it was CNN. Because yeah, it was the one CNN because I was the only
cable news I think at the time. They was saying there's going to be 40,000 casualties in the first 48
hours. I was like, oh, it's all. I'm going to get some. And that was literally my attitude, you know,
and of course it was over in 72 hours and nothing happened. That's why I think that lowered us into
a false sense of security and arrogance. The second goal for me said, oh, we're going to go into
Iraq. Oh, yeah, I won't, you know, probably be done in two or three months or maybe a month. You know,
maybe a month. And guess what, we got up to Baghdad in one, a couple, a couple weeks a week or two.
And boom, we were there. Okay, this is going to be has this. Yeah, well, guess what? We looked, we didn't,
we weren't expecting that insurgency to form and we didn't do a good job of transitioning the
government properly. So we made some, I can't say we made some mistakes. Okay, I can say this,
we made mistakes, but we, you don't know what's going to happen in war, right? We don't know the answers.
If we knew what the answers were, we would do everything perfectly. You just don't know. It's like,
it's like playing a football game, right? You don't know what's going to happen. Not only you
not know what the opponent's going to do, you don't know what passes are going to be caught and
dropped and what the ref's going to call. There's all these variables that you just cannot know.
The only way you can know the outcome of a football game is to play the football game, right?
The only way you can know what's going to happen in a war is the war happens and things are
going to happen that you will not expect ever and you got to deal with. And we were a little slow
to recognize, but again, we had false sense security. Hey, we beat these guys last time in 72 hours.
Okay, we want to take their country. So what's that going to mean? Two weeks? We should be good to go.
You can never do that. You got to be ready for the long haul. Back to the book. In ancient
battle, unity existed, at least with the Greeks and the Romans. The soldier was known to his officer
in comrades. They saw that he fought. In modern armies, where losses are as great for the
victor as the vanquished, the soldier must more often be replaced. In ancient battle, the victor
had no losses or very limited losses. Today, the soldier is often unknown to his comrades. He is
lost in the smoke. He's the dispersion, the confusion of battle. He seems to fight alone. Unity is no
longer insured by mutual surveillance. A man falls in disappears. Who knows whether it was a bullet
or the fear of advancing further than struck him. And again, we're talking, these guys are doing
sort of world war one style advances charges on positions. The ancient combat was never struck by
an invisible weapon. It could not fall this way. The more difficult surveillance, the more necessary
becomes the individuality of companies, sections, and squads. Dispersion brings us back to the
necessity for the unity, which was the absolute necessity in ancient battle. So, another point here,
the size of the battlefield permits less than ever holding units together. The role of the
generals much more difficult. Many more chances are left to fate. Thus, the greater necessity
for the troops who know best their trade, who are most dependable, and the greatest of fortitude.
So, you gotta have even better soldiers now. Because you got a train, and better. Because there
might be out there alone, or you know what two or three guys. There is a strange similarity in
battle at one league to battle at two places. So, one league, meaning separated by 2,000 meters,
2 places, and obviously, 2 places. The value of the soldier is the essential element of success.
Let us strengthen the soldier by unity. And this is obviously, this is businesses, this is teams.
The tighter you are as a group, the better you're going to perform. Work that unity.
The good quality of troops will more than ever secure victory.
Nothing should be neglected to make the battle order stronger and the man stronger.
This is good. When incomplete security, after dinner, in full physical and moral
contentment, men consider war and battle they are animated by a noble arguer that has nothing
in common with reality. Helmet. So, everyone is all brave when they're at the dinner table.
The full bellies. How many of them, however, even at that moment, would be ready to risk their lives.
So, even when they're at the dinner table, talking. Really, at that moment, how many people are ready to
risk their lives. But, obliged them to march for days and weeks to arrive at the battle ground.
And on the day of battle, obliged them to wait minutes hours to deliver it. If they were honest,
they would testify how much the physical fatigue and the mental anguish that proceed,
action have lowered them morale. How much less eager to fight, they are
then a month before when they rose from the table in a generous mood.
Man's heart is changeable as fortune. Man shrinks back and apprehends danger.
In any effort in which he does not foresee success.
So, when we don't think we're going to be successful, we shrink back. We get worried about it.
There are some isolated characters of iron-temper who resist the tendency, but they are
carried away by the great minority. The examples show that if withdrawal is forced,
the army is discouraged and takes flight. The brave heart does not change. Real bravery,
inspired by devotion to duty, does not know panic and is always the same. The bravery
sprung from a hot blood pleases the Frenchman more. He understands that it appeals to his vanity.
It is a characteristic of his nature, but it is passing. It fails him at times, especially
when there's nothing for him to gain by doing his duty. So, this is like motivation
being fickle. If you're super fired up and now you want to go, that's going to fade away.
That's not the kind of bravery we're looking for. We're looking for the constant steady bravery.
The instinct of self-preservation can then make the strongest tremble,
but they are strong enough to overcome their emotion, the fear of advancing, even losing their heads
or their coolness. Fear with them never come becomes terror. It is forgotten in the activities of command.
He who does not feel strong enough to keep his heart from ever being gripped by terror should
never think of becoming an officer. Don't become an officer if you're going to get really
scared. The soldiers themselves have emotions. Have emotion. The sense of duty discipline
pride in the example of their officers and above all their coolness sustain them and prevent
their fear from becoming terror. Their emotion never allows them to cite or
to more than approximately adjust their fire. Often they fire into the air.
Cromwell knew this well. Dependable as his troops were when he said, put your trust in God and
aim at their shoelaces. That's something that we still teach. You know, when you're in a firefight,
you shoot low. Shoot at the ground in front of the bad guys. Because you'll hit ricochets,
the bullets will walk up into the bad guys. Ricochets will put stuff in their face and
you'll at least hit something. If you aim high, you're going to shoot over the hands and hit
nothing. Yeah, wasn't um. Oh, Roger Roger. He was saying he was kind of saying that right.
Like the new guy's shoot a tent to shoot. Oh, yeah, for sure. He definitely said that. Yeah.
No, they drilled us into that. Did you all die in a big time? Yeah, walk it in. Yeah.
Walk it in. Shoot it in the laces. And that's another thing. When you're shooting high,
you don't know where I went. When you shoot the ground, you can see we're hitting. You're like,
okay, boom, I'm walking in. Walking in. Walking on in. What makes this soldier capable of obedience
and direction and action is the sense of discipline. This includes respect for and confidence
and his chiefs confidence in his comrades and fear of their approaches and retaliation if he
abandons them in danger. This is peer pressure. Basically is what we're talking about.
His desire to go where others do go without trembling more than they in a word, the whole of the
speed of core. Organization only can produce these characteristics. Four men equal a lion.
It is as predacor is secured in war, but war becomes shorter and shorter and more and more
violent. Consequently secure a speed decor in advance. This is about training. That's what we're
going to establish a speed of core. Mental equatemanship. This is a weird word for like friendship
or brotherhood, mental acquaintance ship. It is not enough to make a good organization. A good
general spree is needed. All were all must work for battle and not merely live quietly going through
the drills without understanding their application. So you've got everyone understand what's going on.
They got to understand why they're doing what they're doing. Once a man knows how to use his weapon
and obey all commands, there is need. Needed only occasional drill to brush up those who have
forgotten. Marches and battle maneuvers are what's needed. So don't just run the simple drills that
people know, this is the training that I used to run was battle maneuvers. That's what we're doing.
And marches. Yes, you're going to get your long walk on. You're going to get conditioned. You're
going to get tired. You're going to get fatigued. You're going to get after it. And you're going to
get tested. And then some crazy stuff was going to happen. It's going to be mayhem. It's how we get
guys ready for combat. The technical training of the soldiers, not the most difficult. It is
necessary for him to know how to use and take care of his weapon to know how to move the right
into the left forward and back. But this is not what makes a soldier. It's absolutely necessary to
change the instruction. He's talking about how the instructions being run. He's talking how it should
be run. He's absolutely necessary to change the instruction to reduce it to the necessary
minimum and to cut out all sorts of super, superfluous information with which peacetime laborers
overloaded each year. To know the essential well is better than having some knowledge of a lot of
things. Many of them useless. Teach this in the first year. Then in the second, the essential.
Also instruction should be simple to avoid mental fatigue of long drills that discussed everybody.
So keep it simple. So that is the viewpoint on training. That is what you have to do.
Back to the book. When confidence is placed in superiority of material means,
valuable is they are against the enemy at a distance. It may be betrayed by the actions of the
enemy. If he closes with you in spite of your superiority, it means of destruction, the morale of the
enemy mounts with the loss of your confidence. His morale dominates yours. You flee entrenched
troops. Did you understand that? If you are stronger than me, but I attack you. You might just
get on your heels and lose. If you think about it, you see this in film footage in World War I.
People would take it. They would take the trenches. You are in a distance position. You have
got covered. You have got a consumer. You have got barbed wire, but someone still can come in.
When they do you run. You have seen those videos on YouTube with the squirrel attacks the dog.
But it is like this big dog. But the squirrel gets nuts. Is that a point?
They are squirrel getting nuts. You are getting a good with that one.
That was a chance. When you am out when you get nuts, you are getting nuts.
You are not. It is weird that we talk about that because I was talking about that.
When you are a kid, you see someone losing their temper. You see them getting nuts.
That is impressive. That is true. Somebody gets nuts.
If you are an experienced fighter, you see someone getting nuts.
You have got to get a winded about 35 more seconds.
Is that crazy? That is essentially a fight. He is trained.
He is trained. He is trained out of the human element.
He is talking about instinctual.
Good fighter. He is trained out of the human element.
That is exactly what happens with the training fighter.
But this shows you how that momentum and battle and business and anything.
How many attack you? You are stronger than me.
That is why it is aggressive.
Default mode is aggressive. That is why.
Even advancing, even by advancing you affect the morale of the enemy.
But your object is to dominate him and make him retreat before your ascendancy.
And it is certain that everything that diminishes the enemy's morale adds to your
resolution and advancing. So call on the attack. Be offensive. Be aggressive.
The mere attack does not completely succeed against such troops.
It is necessary to destroy them. Again, I always like to point that out because as we are
sitting here talking, we are even me. We are starting to think about chess game and video game
and all the stuff. But we are actually talking about killing everyone. That is what we are talking
about. We can't forget that. In modern battle, which is delivered with combatants so far apart,
man has come to have a horror of man. I thought that was interesting. We don't get this hand to hand
combat very much anymore. These are good. He, who calm and strong of heart awaits his enemy,
has all the advantage of fire. But the moral impulse of the assailant demoralizes the assailed.
He is frightened. He sets his sight no longer. His sight is no longer. He does not even aim as
peace. His lines are broken. So again, you are comfortable spot. This would happen to the Japanese.
So the island advancing campaigns. They are bunkers down in a bunker with thousands of rounds of
ammunition. And what do they see? They see United States Marine Corps coming across the beach.
And they go, oh my god, who are these guys and why are they not backing down? And they got frazzled.
Got overrun. With good troops on both sides, if an attack is not prepared, there is every
reason to believe that it will fail. So this is so, this is where we're going back and forth.
It's like each one is contrary to the other one. So he's saying, hey, if you're attacking
you're going to win. But now he's saying with good troops on both sides, if an attack is not prepared,
there's every reason to believe it will fail. That's because the guys that are waiting the attack
have such an advantage. They're dug in. They're covered. They're, you know, the again. Look at
the Japanese. They're, they're in a bunker. The Marine is on a beach, bro. You can't get any more
exposed. Your weapon is wet. You're falling in the water. It's a horrible situation. We won every
single time. That's amazing. He's kind of talking about all other things being equal. Yeah,
saying other things being equal. If the attack is not prepared, there is every reason to believe
that it will fail. The attacking troops suffer more, materialy, materialy than the defenders.
The latter are in better order, fresh while the salons are in disorder, having suffered a bunch
of losses and a certain amount of punishment. And be clearly, again, we're going across the beach,
any beach, and fabulous invasion. Here taking losses, your disorder, debotes are crashing,
you're coming through the water. People are drowning. All that stuff is really happening.
The slightest, this is important. The slightest reaction by the defense
made demoralized the attack. So you see that, again, see someone in a street fight,
coming up and getting in your face and you just like, like, oh, really, you want something,
immediately will demoralize the attack. Never mind, you know, you, you hit them or you choke them,
because then now you're in a fight. But if you just, little thing made demoralized the attack,
and that's why you know, in a we-trained, when we get attacked, we attack. If you shoot
it us, you're going to feel the heat. The more confidence one has in his method of attack or
defense, the more disc-inserted he is to see them at some time incapable of stopping the enemy.
So that's another thing. You think you're all strong, but then when you start getting beat, you just
fold. Fold. Interesting, just a quick comment. Back to the book, there was always mad
in patience for results without considering the means. So you see this a lot in businesses,
in the military, where the senior leadership, they want to see the results, we want results on
this thing, the kind of patient. Because the whole time you're asking that, if I start asking
you echo, how do we do this, how do we do this, how are we doing right now? You start going,
well, maybe I'm failing because I'm not getting any results here. If I, you know, I need to give you
some space and give you some time to let things develop and let you succeed. With us, very few
reason or understand reason, very few are cool. So again, human nature, if you only, this is important,
this is very important. If you only use combat methods that require leaders without fear of high
intelligence, full of good sense and of a spree, you always make mistakes. So you got to plan
your plan that it suits the, maybe the less superior leader that you might have. Man is always
man. He does not always possess ability and resolution. The commander must make his choice of methods
depending on the troops and on himself. Pride generally causes refusal to acknowledge the truth
that fear of being vanquished is basic in war. In the mass, pride, vanity, in the mass, pride,
vanity is responsible for this dissimulation. With a tiny number of absolutely fearless men,
what is responsible is their ignorance of a thing they do not feel. Feel. There is, however,
no real basis for this and all real tactics are based upon it. Discipline is a part of taxes.
Tactics is absolutely at the base of tactics as a Roman showed. So discipline is more important than,
hey, we're just going to be brave. It's not going to work out for you. I'm not going to work out for you.
Very well. I had a, we were just got to a body and I pulled the officers in to,
there's actually the radio room where we had radios. I just want to talk to the officers.
And I said, hey, guys, look, we're going to be a long deployment. It's going to be rough.
And we got to pay attention to guys that get combat fatigue and it's going to get, you know,
guys will get scared and it's going to break them down and all that. And one of the junior officers
was, he said, he literally did not believe me. He was like, that's, he said, that's not going to happen to
our guys because we had a bunch of, you know, bad ass studs because that's not going to happen to our
guys. So we don't need, we don't need, we don't need to worry about that. I said, okay, well, I hope you're
right. And then about two months. You were right about that. And I said, yeah, I know, but you know,
so let's find out who we got to take care of, get them some rest or whatever or do our best.
Back to the book. Our infantry no longer has any battle tactics. The initiative of the soldier rules
the soldiers of the first empire trusted to the moral and passive action of masses. Today,
the soldiers object to the passive action of masses. They fight as skirmishes or they march back to the
front as a flock of sheep of which three fourths seek cover and route if the fire is heavy. So you
think you're going to, we'll just march the front. No, three quarters of your guys are going to not make it.
Not going to make it to the front. Manuver is possible only with good organization. Otherwise is
no more effective than the passive mass of rat of rabble in an attack. In ancient combat,
the soldier was controlled by the leader in engagements. Now that fighting is open, the soldier cannot be
controlled. Once, often, he cannot even be directed. Constquently, it is necessary to begin action
at the latest possible moment and to have the immediate commanders understand what is wanted
and what their objectives are. Descentualized command. Obviously, self esteem is quite
unquestionably one of the most powerful motives which moves our men. They do not wish to pass
for cowards in the eyes of our comrades. If they march forward, they want to distinguish themselves.
After every attack formation, no longer exists. This is because of the inherent disorder of
every forward march under fire. The bewildered men, evening officers, have no longer the eyes of
their comrades or of their commander upon them, sustaining them. Self esteem, no longer impels them.
They do not hold out the least counteroffensive puts them throughout. Just talking about being
separated and how before we had everyone watching us, no one was watching me. I guess what,
I'm going to take a little cover over here in this trench. Do you object that no one ever gets
within 200 meters of the enemy? That a unit attacking from the front never succeeds. So be it.
Let us attack from the flank. No, this is important. This is important. The combat. No
prescribed interval will be kept exactly. It will open. It will close following the fluctuations
of combat. And this is true with any plan. Business plan. It's not going to be what you thought
it was going to be. It's not going to go as planned. There's going to be fluctuations in what
you told people to do. They got to be ready for that. You got to be ready for that.
I love this one. Absolute rules are foolish. Absolute rules are foolish.
About it. If you find yourself saying never or saying always, you better put a caveat on that.
Those are too strong. There's no such thing. With this very rare. Actually, I'd say there's no such thing.
Maybe I could think of an example. But I'm sure there's an exception there to that.
Yeah, even to the one that I could think of. There's going to be an exception.
Yeah. This is cool. The infantry square is not a thing of mechanics of mathematical reasons.
So the infantry square was attacked. They used any here. They'll tell how they formed up.
Uplatoon in four ranks, two facing the front to the rear. It's flanks guarded by the extreme
files that face to the flank and conducted supported by non-commissioned officers placed in a fifth
rank in the interior of the rectangle. Powerful in its competence and fire cannot be dislodged by
cavalry. So he's talking about this infantry square and why it's such a good tactic. Why?
Moly reasons. And no others make the soldier in a square, feel himself stronger than wind in the line.
He feels himself watched from behind and has no one. Where to fly. So you might think like,
well, they got goods 360 security and that's why it's good or without their, you know, unit that's
easy to control. What it is is, hey, when I'm in the square, I know someone's got my back. I know someone's
got my flank. And I know that their people are watching me and counting on me. So we, I got to fight
hard. That's why the infantry square worked really well. Fire by command presupposes an impossible
coolness. Had any troops ever possessed it, they would have mode down battalions as one
most down course, cornstarch. So he's saying, look, this idea that you're just going to tell him
to get online online coming on shoot. No, they need to have freedom and the only thing that creates
communist under fire is security. Security, just like a quarter back, what's going to make him calm
under fires when he has good defensive people keeping the, oh, line, the old line keeping the,
the, what the defensive line at bay. It's going to keep him cool. I mean, obviously some guys get pretty
cool under some pressure. Not as cool as they are when they got a good line just holding the line.
As always, I'm sorry, always, always take draconian measures to prevent
pillage from commencing. If it begins, it is difficult ever to stop it. So you got to keep
it get a hold of line. Keep your troops disciplined. Here's a little dichotomy of leadership coming
at you. A leader must combine resolute bravery and impetuosity with prudence and calmness,
a difficult matter. That's the dichotomy of leadership. You got to be calm,
but you got to be brave. You got to be prudent with what you're doing, but you're at the same time.
You got to be a little bit rationed. Be aggressive. Good times. Okay. He lays out a little information here
about generals, like being in high command. So when you're, as we're talking about CEOs,
we're talking about senior leadership. When one occupies a high command, there are many things
which he does not see. The general and chief, even a division commander can only escape this
failing by great activity, moved by strict conscientiousness and aided by clairvoyance.
Do you have to be able to like see? You have to have a clairvoyant skills.
This failing extends to those about him to his heads of services. So you're the CEO.
You're not going to know everything that's going on. The only way you do, you do know what's
going on is by being really proactive and finding out what's going on. And by the way, it's not just you that
doesn't know all your little, all your other people in the C-suite, they don't know what's going on either.
You lose a lot of that stuff unless you're super proactive. Now here's some examples. These men live well,
sleep well. The same must be true of all. They have picked well-conditioned horses. The roads are excellent.
They are never sick. The doctors must be exaggerating sickness. They have attendance and doctors.
Everybody must be well-looked after. Something happens which shows a bombadable negligence,
common enough in the war with a good heart and a full belly they say. But this is infamous,
unheard of. It could not have happened. It is impossible. So you gotta be careful of that detachment.
When you get to the senior leadership positions, when you start going out of those guys in the front
ones, what's wrong with it? What can they possibly be complaining about? You can't be that
bad about out there. Actually, it can. Now we'll talk about a little micro management.
Back to the book today, there is a tendency whose cause should be sought on the part of
superiors to infringe on the authority of the infereers. This is general. It goes very
high and is further by the mania for command. Right? People don't want to be controlling everything.
It results in the lessening of the authority of subordinate officers in the minds of their soldiers.
So when you're micro managing, you're hurting the authority of your subordinate leadership.
This is a grave matter. As only the firm authority and prestige of subordinate officers can maintain
discipline. The tendency to oppress subordinates to want to impose upon them in all things,
the views of the superior, not to admit of honest mistakes. Right? We don't want to make
mistakes. We want to impose on them all things, the views of the superior, not to admit honest mistakes,
and to improve them as faults to make everybody even down to the private field that there is only
one infallible authority. And that's me. A criminal, for instance, sets himself up as the sole authority
with judgment and intelligence. He thus takes all initiative from subordinate officers and reduces
them to a state of inertia coming from their lack of confidence in themselves and from fear of being
severely reproved. How many generals before regimen think of, think only of showing how much they know?
Don't be that leader. They lessen the authority of the Colonel. That is nothing to them. They have
asserted their superiority. True or false, that is what is essential. With cheeks puffed out, they leave
proud of having attacked discipline. Really bothers me. But it's, you know, here we are, 1840. We're
talking, 1860. We're talking about micromanagement. We're talking about micromanagement. Right?
We're talking about the operational on, not knowing what's these problems that we deal with with
businesses all the time in echelon front. This is what we deal with. And it's hard for people to see
that they're doing this because they don't know it. Even though this is such a common trait
that we can go back thousands of years and see, people don't recognize it.
Well, this one bothers me. Ask much in order to attain obtain a little. Is a false saying.
A source of errors and attack on discipline. One, two obtain what one asks. It is only necessary
to be moderately reasonable and practical. So this is like, hey, echelon, we need to sell 10,000
of these new units we've made. And what I'm really hoping is that you sell a thousand. That's not,
well, that's not a good way to do. If I want you to sell a thousand, that's what I want you to
make. You know, I want you to make a thousand of these new units. Okay, make a thousand. I don't
tell you make 10,000 in hope that you can know. I think it's a disaster. Don't do that.
Man's admiration for the great spectacles of nature is the admiration for force.
Again, we're getting a little bit of human nature. It's a little touch. In the mountains,
it is mass a force that impresses him, strikes him, makes him admire. In the calm,
see it is the mysterious and terrible force that he defines. That he feels in that enormous
liquid mass in the angry sea force. Again, in the wind and the storm and the vast depths of the
sky, it is still force that he admires. All these things astounded man when he was young when he
became old, he knows them. A astonishment has turned to admiration, but always it is the feeling of
a formidable force which compels his admiration. This explains his admiration for the warrior.
The warrior is the ideal of primitive man, the savage, the barbarian. The more people rise in moral
civilization, the lower this ideal falls. But the masses everywhere, the warrior still is and for a
long time will be the heights of their ideals. This began because man loves to admire force and
bravery that are his own attributes. When that force and bravery find another means to assert themselves
at least when the crowd is shown that war does not furnish the best examples of them,
that there are true and more exalted examples. This ideal will give way to a higher one.
Don't think it's quite apt yet. The only method of fire to be used in war is fire at will.
When you're trying to control your teams and their every action, that's the action of a soldier.
It's the fire. When you're trying to control that you are micro managing. In many cases,
you let them operate on their own. Now I'm going to close out this piece of battle studies right
here for going to August 15th, 1870. This is about in the first month of the Franco-Prussian war,
Colonel DePique was with his regiment. On the outskirts of a town called Mars Latour in France,
and they started to receive artillery fire and this section or this quote is from the history
of France's 10th Infantry Regiment. They started taking some shelling and here we go. The Colonel
had arms taken at once and disposed the regiment north of the road which being elevated provided
sufficient cover for the men. He himself stood in the road to put heart into his troops by his
attitude. They having been a little startled by the surprise and the baptism of fire which they
received under such disadventages circumstances. Suddenly a shell burst over the road, a few feet
from the Colonel and mutilated his legs in a frightful manner. The shell caused other ravages
in the ranks of the 10th. The commander of third battalion, Major D'ShaNays, was mortally wounded.
Captain Ray Bole was killed. Lieutenant Pone, third battalion, first company,
and eight men of the regiment were wounded. The Colonel was immediately taken to the other side of
the highway into the midst of the soldiers and a surgeon called those of the regiment already being
engaged in caring for the other victims of the terrible shot. In the meantime, Colonel D'Pique asked
for Lieutenant Colonel Dolyak delivered to him his saddlebags containing important papers concerning
the regiment and gave him his field glasses. Then without uttering the least sound of pain not
with standing the frightful injury from which he must have suffered horribly, he said with calmness,
my regret is to be struck this way without having been able to lead my regiment on the enemy.
They wanted him to take a little brandy. He refused and accepted some water,
which a soldier offered him. A surgeon finally arrived. The Colonel showing him his right leg
opened in two places, made with his hand the sign of amputating at his thigh saying,
Dr. It is necessary to amputate my leg here. At this moment, a soldier wounded in the soldier
in the shoulder placed near the Colonel, grown to loud. For getting his own condition,
the Colonel said immediately to the surgeon, see first doctor, what is the matter with this brave
man? I can wait. Because of the lack of instruments, it was not possible to perform the
amputation on the ground as the Colonel desired, so this much deplored commander was transported
to the Met's hospital. Four days later, on the 19th of August, Colonel Arden, D'Pique,
died like a hero of old, without uttering the least complaint. Far from his regiment,
far from his family, he uttered several times the words which summed up his affections.
My wife, my children, my regiment, my wife, my children, my regiment, had your goodbye.
And so, we see a man who despite his intimate knowledge of the fear and the immense strength
that the instincts of self-preservation hold yet, he showed no fear. And overcame his own
instincts of self-preservation. And maybe, maybe that's because he knew them so well.
He understood them so deeply that he was able to overcome them.
And maybe of all the incredible lessons we can learn for Colonel, to Pique, perhaps the most
important one is for us to realize why it is still critical for us to increase our knowledge.
Not just of war, but of all things. So that we have the knowledge and the understanding
to confront and overcome those things, the good and the bad. So, learn.
Learn about your strengths and your weaknesses, learn about strategy and tactics,
learn about fear and hesitation, learn about human nature. And learn about yourself.
Test yourself. Find out who you are. Find out where fear and hesitation might cause you
to back down or fall short. Learn and understand yourself so you can overcome and conquer
the limitations of your natural instincts and replace them with the will and the discipline
to overpower and overcome everything in your path.
And I think that's all I've got for tonight. So,
I go Charles. Speaking of learning and gaining knowledge,
maybe you could convey some knowledge on how to support this podcast. Time for support.
Sure. Of course. I feel like we should start with on it.
Good places. Don't break the cycle, the routine, the ritual, the fuel. So, on it, best supplements in
the straight up in the world. You call that, huh? Yeah. Browse is funny. Like I sound kind of sick.
I was like, talk last week and I'm all talking. You know, you're trying to not be sick. Remember?
I think you're thinking of getting sick. Yes. Guess what I did.
Sure. I'm taking you on boom. Or did it? Yeah. You gotta have that stuff on standby. Do you know
where you can feel when you're getting sick? Yeah. I totally deserved it. Just how actually
I didn't really say anything bad. But I deserve it. Oh, so you are deep inside. You're looking
to be a weakness. No. Yeah. Oh, no. I was more like, because I hadn't bought it yet. You know,
we knew who was there. We were like, sure. I'm not sick. But then again, once you're sick,
it's kind of too late. You don't kind of, anyway, nonetheless. Lesson learned. Shroom taking
moon on the way for me. I, by the way, I didn't get sick. I just barely touched on getting sick.
And I'd be, but, amped up the vitamin C, I amp up the shroom tech immune. That fires you up on
because it's like a little battle. Yeah. Yeah. It's a battle. It is. The morale was high after that one.
Yeah. I flanked them. I flanked them with the shroom tech immune. Yeah. Big turn. But yeah. So, to kind of
go down the list. And I think this is important. People ask me, and not to kind of like,
how I say, you know, a few people. So, people been asking me, and it's like two people,
their mom, and then their neighbor, or something, your brother. Yeah. And it's like, all people,
then it, and I was actually talking to my brother about this because he said that to you. He was like,
all people been asking me this. And then I was like, teasing a monster. Oh, yeah. Two people asked
you and you're like, but he was a thing. Let's say three people ask you the exact same question in
like three days. That's one person today. That's not very much. But if they're asking the same
question, that's a lot of people asking you. Really? Feels like it. Okay. Anyway, so a lot of people
have been asking me. People in that question, you know, three of them is on it stuff for real,
is that for real good, you know, and what do you take? So, here it is. If you didn't already.
Officially on what do you say on the roster, right on the everyday consumption or whatever. See,
I have on it total strength and performance. That's not every day. That's only when I do
met constant work out. Sometimes I'll use it for GJ2. Yeah. Stream tech. He's stream tech. The other day
for GJ2 reminded me of why I used it before it was good. What did the advantage? I'm not going to tell you.
Because I didn't notice any. It wasn't the other day. Yeah, it was the other day. Yeah.
But we didn't really roll hard because you were taking the easy on my rib and I think you
did. I'd be here. Yeah. But I didn't feel tired. Like it wasn't. It was good. Anyway, so
soon total performance and strict total strength and performance. Stream tech as needed. That's for like,
you know, hard output, sustained stuff. GJ2 rounds, met cons. If you're into CrossFit,
take that stream tech. Get you right through it. Keep you in the in the green. Maybe in the yellow.
Maybe. And then, acrylic oil. Of course daily daily. Essential. You like the strong bone, right?
This is for joints. You get these joint. You know, I refer a lot of stuff back to GJ2 because
GJ2 is like a sustained stream tech. It can mess with you. If you're getting after it,
five days a week in GJ2, even three sometimes. If you're not used to it, you take the
acrylic oil. Take your right up. Yeah. Krill oil. I got the gourmet peanut by it's not peanut but
it's like cash you. I mean, you know, it's a try. Blend butter. No one's good. You like that one? Yeah,
yeah, it's more as well. And where are your parts? For sure. Where not going trips,
not a speaking companies or work with companies. A lot of them in their little snack area.
Yeah, more of your parts. No butterware bars. Then the no. Yeah, it's good. So good though.
Yeah, what are they going to do? Put down on the other town for me. I'll strain the roof. Yeah. And oh no, no,
don't. It's, it's, on it is interesting in that way. I don't know how much you browse the website,
but when I'll go in there, I'll browse it. This is the, like, I'm not going to buy women's
t-shirts for myself, you know, but I'll just browse this distance. Oh, you're so
read about the women's. Yeah, well, not, not necessarily women's, but I'm just saying,
even if I'm not going to work it for some stuff, oh, look. And they have all kinds of new stuff.
Like, um, you know, obviously protein powder and stuff, but they'll have like wellness stuff
though, uh, multi-bite, but they have toothpaste. Oh, I didn't know that. Deodorant? Yeah.
Interesting. I'm not saying get the toothpaste in the other end. I'm just saying it's interesting
how much new stuff they're always like coming out with. Oh, and I forgot to say the kettlebells
that they have. All up on those. Primal? Bells? Legend. Bells. Legend. Bells. And then there's zombie bells.
That's what I think zombie bells. Yeah. Because I want something that looks, you know,
just stirring and crazy. How much is the, um, or how much does it weigh? What I have the 40k
to hang the 80 something, Palmo. Yeah. Dang. That's good. I have the wearable one, two wearable
ones. Those are like 62 pounds. I keep the zombie bell in the house. Oh, it's like aesthetic.
No, no. Oh, you need jump on it. So I think it's because in my garage, I got bunch of kettlebells,
but those are all older than on it, right? But in my house, I got the, the boom, the zombie bell.
Yeah. Because I, where you just hit a couple snatches, you will wake up. Yeah. Yeah.
Hit a couple snatches, hit a couple swings, you're going to go. Do you do the one where you go?
Yeah. I'm in hits the back here. Yeah. You got to get used to that. You got to jump into that.
But yeah, there's some reason you notice it when you first start kettlebells, but you don't notice it after a while.
Yeah. Just, well, you're not ready for the whole. You know what you know what you do is you use your grip. At least I do.
I use my grip to like slow it down a little bit. Yeah. There's a little bit of friction there.
Right. I get down to get a little softer landing on there. Dang. Yeah. That's a good idea.
So you can use the zombie bells kind of like your, you know, how some guys I think it was you.
It's telling me you have two gays. You have one gig. You never really use unless it's like picture taking time.
That's not me.
That is called the Hollywood. That wasn't you. The Hollywood gig and the action gig.
Absolutely not. The Hollywood gig is like, it's, it's a legit gig. Like most gays are.
You can roll in them, but you do kind of keep it, you know, in the closet, how
up. When it's easy to roll up, you do know me at all. I thought it was you long time. Maybe you changed.
I don't know. I didn't change nonetheless. If I feel like he is going to get rolled in.
Dig it, fed. I did it. Otherwise, why would I have it? Yeah. Oh, that's right.
Take pictures and no. Next question.
Whatever. Oh, by the way, Dr. Zinjitsu magazine taking pictures the other day. Yeah. I said it.
Yeah. Maybe on the cover. Maybe not. I don't know. Anyway, back to on it. We all know
okay, best supplement in the world. These are all the things. What they do. If you take a supplement
for something like from on it. You're still doing on it right now. Yeah. Yeah. I'm going to continue
to do on it because it's working. This is valuable information. If I was on the other side of this,
I wouldn't hope that somebody told me this. Well, that is true. And I think like,
for instance, Kriloiol, you do not know about Kriloiol. Yeah. And now you know about Kriloiol. Yeah.
You are sore and getting old and decrepit. Boom. You started taking Kriloiol? Boom.
Back in the game. Back in the game. Yeah. What's, what's good point? What's bad about taking
Kriloiol though is I did my wife's dad, my father and I would always recruit Ruloiol's bed
in the fish oil and be like, whatever health. Not that you don't look to me. I left. Yeah. I got
a mid to it. Oh, good. Anyway, you know that the supplements you take from on it are going to work.
That's the good thing. And there's a bunch of cool stuff. Even in goes above and beyond supplements.
It's like the peanut butter. Yeah. But you said no. There's a lot of stuff. Yeah. I'm just a small reminder.
Oh, good. If you want 10% off though. Yes, that's it. That's the support part.
Support the podcast support yourself with the supplementation support the wallet with the 10% off.
Go on it.com slash. Joko. Boom. Boom. Another way to support Amazon click through.
It's a good way to support. And it's super easy. It takes no time. Before you do Amazon shopping, go to
website jokopodcast.com or on the side. Here's the thing too. If you have an ad blocker, it might block
these little banners there. Which is cool. That's a safe thing to do. You know, you block ads and
pop ups and whatnot. But know that this will happen most of the time. Most ad blockers. Anyway,
banner on the side. Good. Jokopodcast.com over on the side is a banner that Amazon clicked through that.
Then do your shopping. That helps. That supports a lot. Reinforcements. Another way. Subscribe to the podcast.
On iTunes. On Stitcher. If you haven't already. Do you want to have it said in the well? What review?
Yeah. Yeah. I got a review on there, man. I'll kick a review on there. Tell him what's up. And
there's been, hey, there was a review of jokopodt. Yeah. Have you read it? It's the best review of all time.
Yeah. And it's the basic theme is brew. Brew. Brew. Brew. Brew. Brew. Brewing up the tea again.
And it goes. Yeah. Yeah. And entire is the best review of all time. Yeah. I saw that.
I was so that is what I mean, just the best thing about that. When I read that, and of course,
I get it. But what I love about that is when I read stuff like that, I think about all the people
that that know nothing about anything that we're doing. And they just read that and say,
well, what do they think? Yeah. What is it going through their mind? So when everybody puts all these crazy
reviews on Amazon or on the podcast, I got to admit that I find them entertaining. Yeah. I would
think if you don't really know and you see just all the, the one thing that person could figure out.
That's what could they do? Yeah. They do like get after it. There's a lot of people say that.
They did. They did a lot of stuff that yeah. I read free people out. Yeah. No, but that would
at least make them think like, there's a lot to this thing. This thing is heavy. This isn't just
white tea or this isn't, you know, this is heavy. I got to look into that unless they're scared
or whatever, inhibited or that's not for me, which would be strange. But unless you have
you're in the mood, right, or review, you know, you're feeling creative, get creative, whatever.
Good. Yeah. You can get creative on all. You can get creative on it. Because the review is actually
help. That's the thing. Yeah. You know, you might think it doesn't mean anything, but A, we read them,
B, it helps. It helps. Like Amazon. It helps the ranking in Amazon. It helps the iTunes ranking for
sure. So that's cool. It's another good reason to do it. But mostly do it just to crack me up and
make people think that all of us are psycho. And express yourself. That's a good point too. So
no, I should read that through. Maybe if we ever do a commercial for Jockel, I think that's a good
thing. The chorus is there's no TV in the poor. So good. Yeah. That's awesome. All right. Very much.
So also subscribe on YouTube. We're putting on more videos, you know, which is pretty dope. It's pretty
dope. Sure. No videos to watch. You know, short. You got some in the hopper too, right? I got a
feeling of hopper. Yeah. I have like three in the hopper, which is kind of different. Do you think you should
prioritize an execute? Yeah. Or do you just, do you just like creating three different things at the same
time? No, because a lot of time in this main may or may not be the most disciplined approach, but
I like kind of go with the wave. You know, so it's like, oh, man, this one really, like I'm feeling this
one, you know, so all let's make that one into a video. And I just start and then I'll get hit with
something else that you said or whatever. But all these artistic things you got going on in your mind.
Yeah. Actually I do that with books. This is, you know, I read a lot of books. And I will definitely
read a book. And if it's kind of slow moving, I'll read another book at the same time. And then when I get
bored, I want to start reading the other one to hop. I can have up to three books going at the same
time. Yeah. So that's actually not a bad idea. There you go. See, and mine is a lot like, I just
figure if you reel into it, do it. It comes out like better. I don't know. Yeah. It's what it feels like,
you know, I'm going to stick with that for right now unless it, you know, produces roadblocks.
And then, you know, we'll change strategy. But they are coming along videos YouTube subscribe. If you
haven't already, if you're in the mood to support, you're under no obligation to subscribe to anything
by the way. Of course. But if you're free. I'm sure. Totally totally. Also,
Joc was a store called Joc was store. URL Joc was store. We have shirts. If you like T-shirts,
cool. Multidimensional, multi-layered, philosophically layered T-shirts. Some travel mugs on there.
The travel mugs. We're still working on it. I was telling you about the other day.
Which one? I don't know. I was talking about a layer. There's layers and things.
Oh, this is what it was. The book, way the warrior kid. There's a layer here. Because the illustrator
for the book, a warrior kid is a guy by the name of John Bozac. John Bozac was my brother growing up.
My friend growing up. Good friend. One of my best friends growing up. And when we were kids,
we were in the hardcore bands and we were playing rock and roll music and stuff. And one of the bands
that we were in was a little band called Bronson's Children. So the layer here is a one day I posted
a picture of an old silk screen T-shirt for Bronson's Children. Yes. Which I think we should personally
reproduce. We're going to get after it. Because Charles Bronson was awesome. He was a legit guy.
He was an actor. We have nowadays that were you. I'm an actor. He was like, oh, I was a
tailgunner in World War II, barely survived. They came back and got a job making movies about bad
asses. That's Charles Bronson. By the way, grew up in a coal miner. He was in the mines
in some steel town in Pennsylvania, barely spoken. Because he was a Polish immigrant. Anyways,
with an attitude. That's why that book band was named Bronson's Children.
So the layer here is, interestingly enough, because I don't have a lot of friends, right?
Never have. But the layer here is the couple for the few friends that I have.
I'm good friends with. Yeah. And yeah. And so that old Bronson's Children T-shirt silk screen
was designed by my guy that was in the band with me, whose name is John Bosac, who now has illustrated
way of the warrior kid. That's some layers. Yeah. Yeah. That's layers. So, cool. Just a good job.
They're just good. Yeah. It's awesome. But yeah. Layers. Sorry. Layers. Yeah. I hate
this go back to the store. Real quick. Uh, the, yeah, I'm sure it's whatever they have layers.
Cool. If you listen, you know these layers. Or you'll pick up on them, which is, you know,
I guess kind of makes it one. By the way, I have never thought these layers were super deep, right?
You, you, I think you think the layers are deeper than I think they are. Yeah. I do. The one that I,
I kind of was a little bit. I liked was the layers on the equal sign on discipline equals freedom.
And you made it like a barcode, which matches the layers of the font, which is OCR standard,
which can be read by a computer just like the equal sign. Apparently by the barcode. So I like
where you're coming from. Yeah. Layers there. Yeah. The, like, which is the standard, the original.
Well, fun. The first font. You know what we should do is next t-shirt.
Let me help you put layers in it. Yeah. And then we can not say what the layers are.
That people report the layers. Yeah. Actually, the good shirt layers apparently are kind of deep,
because I've got more than one inquiry about this. They're like, hey, did you realize that the word
good is spelled backwards? It's like, I don't know if that's a mistake. I don't care. It's a cool shirt,
but spelled backwards. And I was like, yeah, no, man. It's, it's for you. That message is for you telling
yourself that, but it's kind of joccal saying it. That's what you look at it in the mirror. It's not for
other people. It's show your cool shirt. Sorry, it is, but that message. Anyway. So you layers. Yeah. I didn't
think that was too subtle. Oh, man. You don't teach their own certain people seeing, you know,
for a different, their mind's some were creative. I'm going to come up with a shirt that's got layers.
It's layers for days. People are going to have to do analytics analysis on the layers on the shirt.
Yeah, man. Good. Good idea. You have a shirt that's so layered that no one understands what it is.
Yeah. Something that happens in literature. It's just when I was going to college.
You've got something that's so many layers. I'd say, you know what? This has so many layers. It's
not worth it. If you have to break out a microscope to see the layers, why put them in there?
I know. Four people on plan earth are going to understand the layers you put in this crazy
poem that you wrote. Why did you do that? Was that good? If only four people can get it? No, it's bad.
What's bad for our thing? I want the people to blend them getting. I want some people to be
able to get them. Yeah. I think layers should be a little bit harder to see. Yeah. That's a nice
thing. Yeah. Yeah, man. Yeah. You don't need to, I guess, you don't need to. For a while, you
weren't talking about the layers. You thought that was too much. You weren't back. You know,
I didn't want anyone to go into a layer fatigue or nothing like this. But yeah, they're back.
Anyway, layers to on the t-shirt. They're good. Well, you know, they're quality shirts. They're not like the
cheap, you know, I didn't go to Target and buy a bunch of undershirts. And then that, hey, let's
spray paint them in the garage. No. They're good. They're good. Anyway, chocolate store.com. Some
hoodies on there. Some patches. Some cool patches. And rash guards. Just take a browse. Don't
buy anything. I'm not saying go buy something. I'm saying look at it. You like something. You're in the
mood to support get something. Get something in return. There you go. Also psychological warfare
is doing well. And when I say doing well, I mean, it's out there like making a difference. That's true.
And I remember there is actually a half, you know, whatever few weeks ago I said, oh, yeah, I don't
need any more. Like I got my boost and then, but yeah, I needed it. I went right back to it and boom.
It's where easy money. Yeah, that's that's the genius. What did you lead for? What's the
scenario? The work out? The same as always. Like that. I could easily get some projects to finish
up right now. And so I loved to wake up early in the morning, work out, but I got to prioritize
next year right now to finish some projects. And so they today, I didn't. I woke up and wrote
it because I got projects. And it's it's so easy. If you don't work out in the morning,
it's so easy to not work out. And because by the time I had this, I didn't get where I wanted
and had something else and then I'm trying to work on this and then the email. So now,
because I want to do this, I am just going to get a pre-lunch work out 11 o'clock in the morning,
get in there and get it done. And the fall of the sun, it was 11, 30, all of a sudden, it was 12.
Also, it was like 12, 10. Get the work out started. And now I'm a little bit hungry. And you know,
you, you have your little thought of, you know what, maybe I shouldn't work out. But I actually didn't have
that thought. You know what I said? Cool. I'm tired. I'm fasted. And I don't feel like working out
so I'm definitely going to work out right now. And we're making a good one. So that's what I did.
Well, yeah, but not everybody's like that. Well, no, and like the voice that's in psychological
warfare, I actually have to live with that. Yeah. Exactly. You know what? Yeah. There's no like,
it doesn't, I never, it never presses pause. It never stops. It's always in there telling me,
get to the gym. You don't want to work out good, get in there and crush yourself. I have to live with
that guy. So yeah, that's good. Which really is the originating story of psychological warfare.
So if you don't know, psychological warfare is a album with tracks that you can purchase from one
of the music. There's no music. Correct. Do you think it should I had music?
Yeah. Well, okay. Maybe. But the problem is there's too many different types of music. Yeah.
And it wouldn't have the same effect. I don't think. That's true. So I agree with you. Yeah.
So because otherwise, I would have said, he put some little instrumental, whatever. Well,
here's something like if there's music on certain things, like you like to listen to certain,
like, you know, you hear a speech. I don't know. Martin Luther King or somebody saying like a
speech and one, they want to get inspired. Yeah. It'll work for sure. But that's not really what
this is in that specific way. It's more like you actually talking. You know, it's good point. It's like
you're part of like, you know, when you see a like the movie, no country for old men. Yeah. I don't know
if you see that movie. There's just that there's no soundtrack. Yeah. It's just the actual sounds of earth
and people and walking. And that is such a cool effect. So I think you're right in this case.
Yeah. No country for old men. By the way, written by Kornback McCarthy, who also wrote
Blood Meridian. Yeah. Layers by the way. Layers all over. Yeah. All right. Yeah. That's it. That's
it's like a lot of work. Oh, I didn't finish it clean what it is. So it's an album you can get iTunes,
Amazon Music, whichever. And they're basically you listen to it. If you're ever feeling a moment of
weakness before you want to go, you know, work out before you want to do something or not do something.
Or yes, yeah, if you're making a decision and you're choosing the short term payoff over the long term
payoff essentially. No not eating doughnuts or just messing up your diet with doughnuts or sugar stuff or
doughnuts. Skinny. What was going to airborne school? There was a sergeant major and he was some
black guy from Georgia. Yeah. And for some reason there's the chatoo, you rivered down there. Yeah. And he says,
me tell you what, you go down in the chatoo, you river. So he's talking about if you're parachuting and you
end up in the chatoo, you better watch out the snakes in the chatoo, and his alagators in the chatoo,
which he and snakes and vines and a wrap you up and snakes snakes in the chatoo. I was thought,
you know what? It's keep clear of the chatoo, because there's snakes in there. Right. You know,
so is that kind of what you're trying to replicate there with this psychological warfare? No,
I forget what I just did, but it led me into that story. Yeah, that was a good story.
So the chatoo, who do you river? You know, you gotta beware for sure. Beware the sugar coated
ice. I don't know. By the way, you're impression of what was his name? I have no idea. He was
it was so he was what's called a back hat at Army Airborne School back in the early, the
Navy used to only go to the Army Airborne School. So you get done with seal training and you're on
good shape and feeling and then you show up at Airborne School, which is a much, it's a less
strenuous school, the seal training. I mean, you're not special operation if you go there. I mean,
any pretty much anyone in the Army or many, very many people in the Army. So it's a three week
school to good school. I mean, obviously the biggest thing you gotta overcome there is not
physical. It's the fear of heights or whatever fear of jumping. But yeah, so you go down there
in the black hats or the guys that run Airborne School. It's a totally professional thing. There's
a lot of fun and that that sergeant major though. He was awesome. He was here at the crazy eyes.
You know what I mean? Sure. That's what crazy ass is. We had the one other thing he said to me one
day because he liked me. You know why he liked me? Because I was getting after him. Yeah. And he said to me,
he goes, hey, and I don't think he, I think he'd call me like Navy. Yeah, it's really
common. He just called me Navy, right? Because they don't know what our ranks are. So he's
called me Navy. He's like, hey, Navy. I said, I was like, I think he said clear. For some reason he's
a clear sergeant major or something. And I'll clear sergeant major. And he goes, maybe day or
some. When you get back to your CEO team one day, I want you to come over to J. Sock.
And we'll have fun killing motherfuckers. Now, what do you think? I was I was like 19 years old.
I am so. Wherever you go, the sergeant major, I'm with you. I'm in the game.
So yeah, that was a sergeant major black hat down at Airborne School. You kind of sound like a
Taj Mahal, the singer. That's who he is. That is. He's a blue singer of a hand. Actually,
we're with his family. I'm cool. He's a traveling guy. But yeah, he's a blue singer. He's a blue singer.
Okay, but he's from Hawaii. He's going to be out from Hawaii. But he doesn't really get a lot of
blues when you live in Hawaii. I think you'd be surprised. He saw my camera little imitation there.
It's good. We're going to kill him motherfuckers. He cares the dust. Anyway, there it is.
Psychological warfare sounds more like Jocca, not the Taj Mahal. And he tells you, he
convinces you that making the long-term decision to stick with the discipline path. He gives you
that boost in your head. So it's like, yeah, that's good. Anyway, check that one out. You want to get one of
those or all of the just album's goods. Bind number one. Straight up number one. Straight up number one.
Day one. Day one. So everyone that's going to be the first to get up. Thank you for that's a good way to
support podcast. So yeah, because it costs 99 to buy the album. Yeah, the whole thing. Just like for
any, you know what? We were like, oh, so how do we do this? Hey, it's 99. Boom. Done. Yeah.
You can get it and you're supporting the podcast. So that's cool. Also, you know, nothing you can
get in this Jocca, like, tea. You can get it. It's in stock, by the way. And it's going to stay in stock.
I'm a little nervous about saying that, but it's going to stay in stock because you know what? I'm
confident saying that because I bought a lot of it. Because I don't play around when I make a
logistical error and we end up with no Jocca, like, tea and everyone's angry about that myself included.
Guess what? We're going to do something about it. So we have stock. We got a lot of stock and you
would actually know that you need it because deadlifting, you know you need that 8,000 pound increase,
which by the way is guaranteed. It's guaranteed to happen. We're hearing about pull ups now, too.
People that are trying to get better at pull ups are going from 10 to 12 pull ups. Now we're getting
numbers up around 147, made a moment. And the other thing is the Jiu-Jitsu, if you're training the
Jiu-Jitsu, and we're probably going to have to add a warning to the label of Jocca, white tea,
because we got people out there that are just randomly throwing commeros. They can't stop it.
They're meeting somebody boom, they're throwing a commero on them. Just on the regular,
just landing commeros all over the place. So you got to watch out for that little warning.
It's on Amazon. That's if you're here in America, if you're on international orders, go to eBay
and get it from the official listing of the Jockel podcast. It's sold by pro-resourcing,
which is actually going to change in the near future because we're getting more involved in the actual
what's that called fulfillment of the tea. We're joining some for a streamlining. Yes. Yes.
While your on Amazon also, there's a book called Extreme Ownership, referred to it a
couple of times tonight, possibly by me and my brother, Lave Babin. And let me tell you what you do
is you lead within your company or within your team. You infiltrate with extreme ownership.
Get a copy for your subordinates. Get one for your bosses. Spread the word because it will,
it will actually improve your alignment and your effectiveness as a team. It will.
And one thing I noticed, I was at a company that we were working with. And it's very impactful.
Just when people read the book, all of a sudden, they have a common language. They're referring to
the problems in the same way. They recognize the problems clearly because they've seen it and they all
understand it and it improves the communication and the understanding between the groups because they
know what the problems are because they've been identified in the book. So make that happen.
And also, you can get a little copy of a book pre-order. It's called Way of the Warrior Kid.
And you might be thinking, oh, I'm not a kid. I'm going to don't.
Doesn't matter. You actually need this book too. So there's a part in the book.
When Uncle Jake is trying to explain to his young nephew Mark what discipline is and why it is
important and that it starts. Discipline starts by getting up early in the morning. And of course,
Mark, he just thinks discipline is sort of like following the rules. So Uncle Jake has to do a
little explain into him and this is what Uncle Jake says. That's one kind of discipline.
But it isn't as simple as just following the rules. People give you the most important part of
discipline is following rules. You set for yourself. It is doing things. You might not always feel like
doing things that make you better. Then Uncle Jake started getting really intense.
Listen, if you want freedom from being bullied at school by Kenny, you have to have the
discipline to go to justice to class and learn the skills to defeat him. If you want freedom from
ridicule when you do pull-ups at school, you have to have the discipline to train so that you can
do pull-ups. If you want freedom to swim in the water and enjoy your school field trip,
you need the discipline to overcome your fear of the water and learn how to swim.
What about school? Do you want to be free of being stumped on tests and not knowing the answers
to the questions they ask you? Then you need the discipline to study and learn the material they teach you.
When you get older, you're going to want financial freedom. That means having enough money to
do what you want without worrying about it and the only way you're going to get financial freedom
is by having financial discipline, by saving money and not wasting it on things you don't need.
That discipline starts with getting up early in the morning.
That's a little hit from my Uncle Jake right there.
So Uncle Jake is, he's clearly mentoring and helping his young nephew Mark, who's got some
shortfalls that he needs to correct and Uncle Jake helps and do that. So all kinds of lessons
to be learned in there for all of us and you know lessons about how to study, how to overcome fear,
how to get stronger. So order yourself a copy and do it now. This is the thing. We want to do it
now again, I pointed this out before. We want the publisher to print enough so that there's not a shortage.
Right. If everybody waits, then the printer goes, oh, Greg, you need to know. That's when he
copies. And then everyone orders it when it comes out and now we have a backup and everyone's angry.
So order it now that way we have enough when it rolls out and get one, you know, get one
free the kids at school with classroom, library down the street, get the word out there. I wish
I wish I had this book when I was a kid. I wish I had this book when I was a kid. So it actually
comes out May 2nd and then by the way two days later after May 2nd after this book comes out,
it's going to be time for the extreme ownership. Master number 002 in New York City,
May 4th and 5th, Maria Markey in New York City, we're finalizing all the details right now and
I'm telling you what, it's going to be awesome. We're going to get after it and it's going to leave a mark.
It will have an impact on you. It's intense. It's going to be powerful. And the other cool things
you're surrounded by all these other people that are all in the game out there crushing it.
Every imaginable industry, every level of leadership, just getting after it. So sign up, book your
ticket, get your hotel room. And by the way, I mean, obviously, Wave is going to be there. I will be there.
So will JP to now. Of course, Echo Charles is going to be rolling around cruising as he likes to say.
Dave Burke, who's now new to Ashland Front team. JP has been on Ashland Front team for a little bit.
You know, basically came on the podcast and we said, you know what, we got to get you in the game.
So JP is in the game, obviously. And Dave Burke, just coming on right now, done a couple of
work with a couple of companies so far. Wasn't a Marine Corps fighter pilot, top gun,
top gun instructor, by the way. And also was with us with Task Interpruser as the angle
co-team leader in the Battle of Ramani. So awesome guy. He's going to be coming on the podcast.
You're sure soon. I'm so so can't wait for that. And I'll also tell you, we will be hanging out with you
talking, discussing things overcoming problems. There's no backstage, no green room.
I'm not that guy. No, none of that. No curtain behind, tied behind just us, all of us. All these
guys I'm talking about, including echo Charles. We brought echo Charles up on stage last time.
Do you even like that? No. He doesn't like public speaking. I think you need to give a speech,
like a five minute speech about something. No, okay. So come on out, do that. And until the
mustard until we do get there in the meantime, you know that you can find us on the interwebs.
On Twitter, on Instagram. And even you want to find us right there on that face of
bulky boha. We are there. And we are interacting on the interwebs. Echo is at echo Charles.
And I am at Jocka Willink and to close this out to the warriors out there in the world,
giving us freedom and protecting this country. A country by the way where we can say whatever we
want, where we are blessed with unprecedented freedoms in thought and speech.
Thanks to all you servicemen and service women out there in the world, holding the line right now,
protecting those freedoms and keeping evil at bay. And the police and law enforcement that do the
same for us here at home. Keep us safe from evil. Thank you for putting on your vest every day
into the firefighters and the EMTs that are standing by 24 hours a day. Think about that 24 hours
a day to come and help us. And of course, we never say thank you or we never even see them until
some unforeseen horror comes and that's when you're there for us. So thank you for your vigilance
and to everyone else listening to this podcast. Thanks for going down this path with us, this path
of learning and gaining knowledge and trying to get a better understanding of the world and trying
to get a better understanding of ourselves. So we can all recognize and overcome our weaknesses and
our faults and we can all get out there and get after it. So until next time this is echo
and jacco out.